## 21 June 2024

VIA Electronic Submission and Email

Mr. Christopher Kirkpatrick Secretary of the Commission Commodity Futures Trading Commission Three Lafayette Centre 1155 21 st Street, NW Washington, DC 20581

Re: 'Event Contracts' RIN number 3038-AF14.

Dear Mr. Kirkpatrick:

Thank you for providing an opportunity for the public to comment on the Commission's Proposed Rules PR 8907-24.  I write to express my opposition to the proposed rules.  My reasons are detailed below.

Adoption of the proposed rules would unfairly impact the ability of legal businesses in the gaming industry to  hedge  unwanted  exposure  to  legitimate  business  risks  by  prohibiting  event  contracts  designed  with gaming industry risks in mind or the approval of specialized derivatives exchanges offering such contracts. This imposes an unfair burden on firms in the gaming industry.

The Commission justifies the proposed rules based on its interpretation of the Congressional intent behind the inclusion of CEA section 5c(c)(5)(C) from a colloquy between Senators Feinstein and Lincoln reported in  the  Congressional  Record  on  15  July  2010.  However,  the  reasoning  underlying  the  statements  by Senators Feinstein and Lincoln is flawed.  The proposed rules would impose an unrealistic and unnecessary burden on those seeking Commission approval of new event contracts. And, if the proposed rules were imposed retroactively to approved futures contracts, it would likely result in many, if not most, existing futures contracts being delisted. This is unlikely to have been the true intent of Congress.

1. Proposed Rules Make It Difficult for Legal Businesses to Hedge Legitimate Business Risks Many states have determined that sports betting is in the public interest and have allowed sports betting firms to operate in their states.  These firms seek to manage exposure to legitimate business risks.  The  Commission  has  resisted  requests  to  approve  specialized  exchanges  or  derivative contracts to be offered on existing exchanges for the gaming industry.  The proposed rules would make it more difficult for firms in the gaming industry to efficiently manage risk. This is contrary to the public interest.

2. Liquid Futures Markets Require Both Hedgers and Speculators The colloquy between Senators Lincoln and Feinstein is used to support a broader definition of the public  interest and  an  expanded  economic  purpose  test  that  includes  the  requirement  that  the predominant users of a new futures contract must be hedgers.  Again, the statement that contracts must be predominantly used by hedgers reveals a fundamental misunderstanding of futures markets by both senators.   Market participants want to trade on deep, liquid, markets with tight bid/ask spreads and where price discovery occurs quickly. This requires the participation of both hedgers and speculators.  Consider the following real-world example.

The U.S. Treasury market is arguably the largest and most liquid fixed income securities market in the world.  Much of the liquidity in the spot market is provided by primary government securities dealers. However, their willingness to do so depends in part on their ability to hedge their risk exposure by transferring unwanted risks to speculators.  On Tuesday, October 20, 1987, in the wake of the stock market crash the day before, 30-year U.S. Treasury bonds experienced their largest one-day  rally  ever.    Spot  market  trading  essentially  ceased  after  Treasury  futures  prices  went quickly lock-limit up.  No primary government securities dealer would make a market for Treasury securities in the spot market because the futures market was closed, and the primary government securities dealers could not hedge themselves.  Normal trading resumed in the Treasury spot market after the futures markets reopened and hedgers could transfer unwanted risks to speculators in the futures markets.  Speculators are frequently needed to take the other side of futures contracts when hedgers put on hedges.  There is often a dearth of speculators during financial crises and not a dearth of hedgers.

3. Speculators in Existing Futures Markets May 'Profit from Devastating Events' 
The  Commission  argues  that  former  Senator  Blanche  Lincoln's  statement  that  CEA  section 5c(c)(5)(C) was intended to provide the CFTC with 'the power to prevent the creation of futures and swaps markets that would allow citizens to profit from devastating events and also prevent gambling  through  futures  markets'  (emphasis  added).    Senator  Lincoln's  statement  reveals  a fundamental misunderstanding of how futures markets function.  Futures markets rely on both hedgers  and  speculators  to  create  deep,  liquid  markets  that  promote  efficient  price  discovery. Hedging against potential adverse price moves locks in a purchase or selling price.  Futures markets rely on both hedgers and speculators to create deep, liquid markets with efficient price discovery. Consider the following examples.

- A. A farmer fears that the price of corn may fall before his corn crop is harvested so the farmer sells corn futures contracts today to lock in a selling price. A speculator takes the other side of the position and buys corn futures.  If the spot price of corn is lower when the corn is harvested the lower price that the farmer receives for his corn in the spot market is offset by the profit, he has made on his futures market position. Ignoring transaction costs and assuming that the basis is zero at contract expiration, the farmer's gain in the futures market is exactly equal to the speculator's loss.  Now suppose that a severe drought hits the  corn belt destroying a large amount  of  the  corn  crop  in  the  soil.    The  price  of  corn  rises  dramatically.    The  farmer-unaffected by the drought--sells his corn crop at the substantially higher spot price but his corresponding short futures position experiences significant losses.  After considering the gains from selling  his  corn  crop  at  the  sharply  higher  spot  price  and  the  losses  from  his  futures position, the farmer has sold his corn crop at the fixed price that he wanted to, given his earlier fear  that  corn  spot  prices  might  fall  sharply  by  the  time  his  corn  crop  is  harvested.    The speculator earns substantial profits from his long position in corn futures as corn prices rose due to a 'devastating event' --a drought in the corn belt.
- B. A shale oil producer routinely hedges its anticipated output in the futures market by selling crude oil futures contracts to lock in a selling price.  A speculator takes the other side of the position  and  buys  crude  oil  futures  contracts.  A  major  energy  producing  nation  suddenly invades  another  country  prompting  sanctions  on  its  oil  production  and  crude  oil  prices skyrocket.  The shale oil producer's extra revenue from selling oil in the spot market at sharply higher prices per barrel is offset by losses on his short crude oil futures position.  The shale oil producer succeeded in locking in a selling price for crude oil.  The speculator's long position in crude oil has benefitted greatly due to a 'devastating event' - a surprise foreign war.
- C. A steakhouse restaurant chain fears that the price of beef might rise so it locks in a purchase price by buying live cattle futures.  A speculator takes the other side of the transaction.  Shortly after putting on its hedge a case of mad cow disease is discovered in Canada.  Even though Canadian cattle aren't deliverable on the US cattle futures contract, the price of live cattle drops sharply.  The savings the restaurant chain subsequently has from being able to buy beef at a lower price in the spot market are offset by its losses on its long live cattle futures position. The  speculator's  short  position  has  benefited  greatly  due  to  a  'devastating  event'  -the discovery of mad cow disease in a Canadian cattle herd.

Put differently, the speculators in the above examples were able to 'profit from devastating events' something that Senator Lincoln wanted to see the Commission prevent happening while hedgers were able to lock in a buying or selling price.  One could easily imagine similar scenarios for most other futures contracts.  Should the Commission ban corn futures, crude oil futures, live cattle futures, …, etc. to ensure that speculators never profit from devastating events?  One could also easily  imagine  scenarios  where  speculators  suffer  substantial  losses  from  'devastating  events' while hedgers are also able to lock in a buying or selling price.  Indeed, the gains that hedgers receive in such scenarios come from the losses borne by speculators ignoring transaction costs. Derivatives do not eliminate risk they merely transfer risk between or among parties.

4. Most Futures Contracts Are 'Gaming' Contracts Given that Speculators Dominate Trading The colloquy between Senators Lincoln and Feinstein is also used to support an unusual definition of gaming.  Senator Feinstein asks Senator Lincoln: 'Will CFTC have the power to determine that a contract is a gaming contract if the predominant use of the contract is speculative as opposed to a hedging or economic use?' Senator Lincoln replies: 'That is our intent.' Again, the colloquy reveals a fundamental misunderstanding about the nature of futures markets by Senators Feinstein and Lincoln. Speculation dominates most trading in futures markets. Rarely is a buy hedge on the other side of a sell hedge and vice versa.  Rather, speculators create the deep liquid futures markets that make it easy for hedgers to hedge.  Indeed, many existing futures contracts would need to be redefined as 'gaming' contracts if the criterion is the amount of speculation versus hedging.  It is doubtful that reclassifying virtually all existing futures contracts as gaming contracts because the market is dominated by speculators and other traders without a commercial or hedging interest was the intent of Congress given that the Commission was subsequently reauthorized.

The Commission has wisely rejected the definition of gaming by Senators Feinstein and Lincoln in its proposed 'narrow' definition of gaming.  However, the Commission should not use Senator Feinstein's and Senator Lincoln's criterion as part of an expanded economic purpose test. Doing so, imposes an unnecessary burden on those proposing new event contracts especially given that many existing futures contracts would be hard-pressed to meet that same standard.

5. Some Event Contracts on Exempted Commodities Meet the Proposed Gaming Definition
The Commission cites Senator Lincoln's colloquy with Senator Feinstein to support the notion that Congress intended to prohibit event contracts on sporting events.  Senator Lincoln stated: 'It would be quite easy to construct an ''event contract'' around sporting events such as the Super Bowl, the Kentucky Derby, and Masters Golf Tournament. These types of contracts would not serve any real commercial purpose. Rather, they would be used solely for gambling.'  The Commission correctly notes that sporting events themselves are not considered 'gaming.' Instead, the Commission argues on page 23 that 'CEA section 5c(c)(5)(C) - focuses on the overall characteristics of the contract … [and] the question for the Commission in evaluating whether a contract 'involves' an Enumerated Activity or prescribed similar activity is whether the contract, considered as a whole, involves one of those activities.'

The Commission also argues that commodities listed in CEA section 1a(19)(i) would be excluded from the proposed rules on event contracts.  These commodities include, among others: an 'index or measure of inflation, or other macroeconomic index or measure.' The Commission argues that these commodities should be excluded because they already 'served as underlyings for a range of derivative  contracts  that  were  broadly  traded  on  CFTC-registered  exchanges  at  the  time  of enactment of CEA section 5c(c)(5)(C). '

It is easy to imagine event contracts tied to the release of various U.S. Government macroeconomic reports such as the inflation rate or the jobs (i.e., Employment Situation) report.  These reports are closely watched by market participants and often have a significant impact on financial market prices when the outcome from the report differs from the consensus expectation of the outcome. Economists at major financial institutions participate in surveys capturing their beliefs as to what the reports will indicate.  Various consensus forecasts are obtained by averaging the forecasts of surveyed economists. Basically, market participants are trying to determine whether the realized outcome (e.g., the monthly inflation rate or nonfarm payrolls-the number of new jobs created in a month) will be greater or less than the consensus forecast of economists.  Put differently, market participants are arguably 'staking' funds on the outcome of a competition among economists.  This seems to meet the Commission's proposed definition of gaming.  That is, 'the staking or risking by any person of something of value upon: (i) the outcome of a contest of others; (ii) the outcome of a game involving skill or chance; (iii) the performance of one or more competitors in one or more contests or games; or (iv) any other occurrence or non-occurrence in connection with one or more contests or games.'  If so, how would a potential event contract on a 'macroeconomic index or measure' differ from an event contract on a gaming industry variable?  If they don't differ it appears that the Commission's proposed definition of gaming would be selectively applied to the detriment of firms in the gaming industry in need of tools to manage their risk exposure.

Finally, Senator Lincoln's assertion that event contracts 'around sporting events … would not serve any real commercial purpose …[but] would be used solely for gambling' ignores both the need that firms in the sports betting industry have to manage their exposure to legitimate business risks and the potential benefit that specialized event contracts may offer such firms in managing their risk exposures.  Again, nearly forty states have determined that allowing betting on sports events is in the public interest.  Sports betting firms are regulated and licensed.  They have legitimate business risks. They should be allowed to use tools that would help them manage their exposure to such risks.

Respectfully submitted.
Robert I. Webb Paul Tudor Jones II Eminent Research Professor McIntire School of Commerce University of Virginia Charlottesville, Virginia 22903