July  8, 2024

VIA Electronic  Submission

Mr. Christopher  Kirkpatrick Secretary  of the  Commission Commodity Futures  Trading  Commission Three  Lafayette  Centre 1155 215 1 Street, NW Washington, DC  20581

Re: 17  CFR  Part  40  Event  Contracts;  Comment  for  Proposed  Rule  89  FR  48968

Dear  Mr. Kirkpatrick:

Susquehanna  International Group,  LLP  ('·SIG") (SIG affiliated companies  have  operated as  registered  market  makers and  broker/dealers in  the  U.S. securities and futures markets for  over  30 years and collectively  participate in a significant  percentage of daily consolidated volume in exchange listed products.) appreciates  the  opportunity  to  comment on  the Commodity Futures  Trading  Commission's  ("CFTC"  or  the  "Commission")  proposed  amendments  to  part 40 of  the  CFTC's regulations as set  forth in the notice of proposed  rulemaking  dated  May 10, 2024  (the "Notice"). ln pertinent part, the  Notice sets forth several questions  that relate to the  utility of contracts involving "gaming" and asks  whether a blanket prohibition  of  such  contracts  is warranted.  As  a longstanding  market  maker  of exchange  traded  derivative  instruments,  we  believe  that  the  types  of contracts that  the  Notice  now  defines  as  gaming  can  provide  businesses  legitimate  hedging  opportunities  and  that  the public interest would be very much served by allowing for a regulated market to trade them upon. Therefore, for  the  reasons set  forth below, we  strongly urge  the CFTC to reconsider  its position and  the proposed  ban  of all  gaming  contracts.

As an initial matter, the  Notice  asks  for  public  comments  regarding  the  CFTC's  newly  proposed  definition of  "gaming" as "the staking  or  risking by any person of something of  value upon:  (i) the  outcome  of  a contest  of others; (ii)  the  outcome  of a  game  involving  skill  or  chance; (iii)  the  performance  of one  or  more competitors in  one  or  more  contests  or  games; or  (iv)  any  other  occurrence  or  non-occurrence  in  connection with  one  or  more  contests  or  games." While  we  defer  to  the  comments submitted  by  licensed  sportsbooks and legal experts as to what should be considered "gaming," SIG would note that the CFTC's proposed definition appears to be  overly broad.  SI  G's  understanding  of "gaming"-which the  CFTC notes is used "interchangeably"  with  the  terms  "gambling,"  "betting,"  or  "wagering" has  always  been  that  it  involves an activity wherein a  person takes on financial risk  wholly unrelated  to any  other  business activity.  As such, if a  trader  risks  something  of value  upon  "the  outcome  of a  contest  of others"  in  the  interest  of hedging a legitimate business risk, that  trade should not  be prohibited as a de facto "bet"  or  "wager"  under  Section 5c(c)(5)(C)  of the  Commodity Exchange  Act  or  the  unrevised  CFTC Rule  40.11.

While the Notice concedes that the proposed definition of  "gaming" would prohibit some legitimate hedging  activity  for  entities "for  whom a particular  occurrence  in  connection with a  game  or  contest  have more direct and more predictable outcome," the Notice downplays this inclusion by finding that these contracts generally  "cannot  [be] reasonably  expected  to be  'used for  hedging  and/or  price  basing  on more than an occasional  basis."'  SIG respectfully disagrees with this conclusion. For  example, contracts that relate  to  the  outcome  of a  sporting  event (e.g., the  winner  of a  National Football League  game)  could  help manage  the  financial risk  and  variance  inherent  to  sports  book  operators whose  business  is  inextricably  tied to predicting  the  outcome  of certain  games or  contests.  They  can  (and  do)  face  significant  financial risk  in their  operations  if their  retail customers heavily  favor  one  side  of an event.  In  that  instance, operators are forced to either change the "price" of  the event to an undesirable amount to discourage additional participation  or  to  stop  accepting  wagers on  the  event  entirely.  If the  CFTC  were  to allow  for  a  regulated derivative  market  offering  contracts related  to  the  outcome  of an event, however, the  sportsbook  that  has reached  its risk  limit  would  be  able  to  hedge  that  risk  to  the  market  at  an  efficient  price, balance  its  books, and continue accepting wagers from retail  customers in a regulated environment. As legalized and regulated  sports betting  continues to  grow  in  the  United  States, sportsbooks looking for  an opportunity  to hedge  legitimate  business  risk  to  a  sophisticated  counterparty  based  upon  the  outcome  of a  game  or  contest alone  would  occur  on "more  than an occasional basis."

Even setting aside licensed sportsbooks,  the Notice concludes that the "broader universe of  market participants ...  are most  likely to trade such contract  for  entertainment purposes only[.]"  This finding, however,  fails to appreciate the economic ecosystem centered around American sports. In addition to sports  books, there  are  myriad  local businesses  that  have  a  substantial financial interests  tied  to  the  outcome of  these  contests.  This includes not just  stadium  and  arena  owners that  need  to  anticipate  staffing  needs in their  venues, but  also  countless  hotels, restaurants, and  other  local businesses  that  stand  to  generate  a  great deal of  revenue if their local sports team qualifies to host  additional playoff  games or  has a particularly successful season.  Even more ancillary businesses, such as parking lot operators close to stadiums, see uncertain  spikes in  revenue  when  attendance  to local sporting  events increase  or  for  each  additional playoff game. Certainly, when a team is having an exciting, winning season, more fans will attend games and thereby frequent  local establishments.  Unfortunately, there  is no  traditional financial tool that  could  allow these businesses to hedge the uncertainty of  a team winning a game or playoff  series. Unlike a retail customer, entities are almost  universally  restricted from utilizing  a licensed  sportsbook  to hedge  this type of  risk.  If, however, these  contracts were  made  available  on a regulated  market, these business owners like  a  farmer  using  a  listed  future  to  hedge  a  crop  harvest-could  protect  against  the  downswing  in  revenue if a  local team's  season were  to end  unexpectedly  early.

The  above  justification  for  permitting  trading  of at  least  some  regulated  gaming  contracts  applies  with  even greater  force  to  those  contracts  based  upon  the  outcome  of a  political contest-which  the  Notice  would  now expressly consider "gaming" in proposed CFTC Rule 40.11 (b)(2). While SIG has submitted multiple comment  letters addressing  this  exact  issue-filed as public  comments for  Industry Filings  22-002  and  230  I-we would still take this opportunity to reiterate our view that contracts regarding the outcome of political elections serve  a vital purpose in allowing investors to hedge against unwanted risk  created by elections in  a  manner  closely  resembling  commonly  used  financial products.

As previously explained, market participants already adjust  their  trading strategies in response  to electoral outcomes as different governments have substantially different policies. While there is some uncertainty regarding the exact manifestation of  specific policies, election contracts allow a market participant-e-and the market as a whole-to forecast  the implications associated with one candidate's agenda and then react to  the  possible  outcome  of an election.  In  this  manner, the  directional effect  of a  given  government  certainly "correlate]s] to direct and quantifiable changes in the price of  commodities [and] other  financial assets or instruments[.]" For  example, one  candidate may be more likely  than another  to impose  strict  environmental regulations that  would raise  operational costs and  associated prices in certain energy industries.  By trading election outcome contracts,  businesses could alleviate the risk of  increased energy costs  by trading a contract  with a  party more willing to bear  that risk.

Moreover, our experience over decades in the financial  industry suggests that traditional  instruments are insufficient  to fully  hedge  the  risks  that  arise  from these  fluctuations in government  policy.  Many  products do not have futures markets associated with them.  As a result, market participants that face idiosyncratic policy risk are forced to use imperfect exchange-traded products that do not fully reduce their unwanted risk. This void in options leaves many businesses and investors exposed to unmitigated risk. Regulated election contracts, on the other hand, could be used to efficiently hedge business risks in the same manner as other successfully listed hedging products.  Just as a financial  institution uses listed futures to hedge a portfolio of  investment  products, another  business applying the same general risk management  goal could hedge a candidate's prospective tax hike using regulated election contracts.

Lastly,  the Notice poses  several  concerns  with  respect to election integrity. Specifically,  the Notice speculates that  permitting  trading  on these  contracts could  "raise unique additional  public interest  concerns relating to election integrity and the perception of  election integrity[.]"  While many other commentators have weighed in regarding the social significance of these contracts'  hedging utility and their  resistance to manipulation, SIG would  just  emphasize that vast  amounts of  US election-related trading already occur  in the status quo and, to date, have not caused any integrity-related concerns.  This fact should not only highlight the clear  demand that exists for these products but  also underscore that bringing this activity to the onshore, regulated, and taxed market  could  significantly alleviate  that  concern.  Even if the CFTC does not wish  to  "find  itself investigating  the  outcome  of  an  election," allowing  for an  onshore  trading environment would give those agencies  that are  "tasked  with  the  protection  of  election  integrity  or enforcement of  campaign finance laws,"  such as the Federal Election Commission, more information to do their  jobs while also providing market  protection for  the  many  that  could  avail themselves of these  hedging tools.

In  conclusion, SIG strongly  recommends that  the  CFTC reconsider  its position on a  prohibition of "gaming" contracts.  There are numerous types of  contracts that would fall under the CFTC's broad definition that could  provide  an  active,  competitive  hedging market to  the  benefit  of  a multitude  of  stakeholders. Permitting even some of  these contracts-such as those discussed above-would serve as an invaluable financial tool that  even institutional investors may use to balance otherwise unchecked risk.

Sincerely,
David  Pollard, 
Head  of Strategic  Planning