Ilya Beylin Associate Professor Seton Hall Law School 1109 Raymond Blvd. Newark, NJ 07102

July 30, 2024

Christopher Kirkpatrick, Secretary of the Commission, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street NW, Washington, DC 20581

Dear Mr. Sebastian Pujol Schott:

This letter is a response to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) request for comment on 'Event Contracts', RIN number 3038-AF14.

I  am  a  professor  of  business  law  at  Seton  Hall  Law  School,  and,  among  other  things, previously  practiced  derivatives  law  in  regulatory  and  transactional  capacities  at  Sullivan  &amp; Cromwell LLP and Sidley Austin LLP.  My scholarship focuses on derivatives and other financial markets.  I write in my personal capacity, and the views expressed in this letter represent only my personal views.  The views expressed in this letter are not the views of Seton Hall University, Seton Hall Law School, or anyone else associated with Seton Hall.

Event contracts pose difficult issues as the CFTC contends with limited resources, an epic expansion of its regulatory authority under the Dodd-Frank Act, and the evolution of financial markets.  The utility, risks, and legal status of event contracts all pose complex questions that have to be addressed in a context of inadequate legislative guidance and consideration, posing additional challenges for the CFTC.

In this response, I address some but not all of the questions posed in the CFTC's Notice of Proposed  Rulemaking  regarding  Event  Contracts,  89  Fed.  Reg.  48968  (June  10,  2024)  (the ' Proposing Release ').



## 1. Clarifying  and  correcting  drafting  in  CEA  Section  5c(c)(5)(C)  and  the  definition  of 'excluded commodity'

Any rulemaking implementing Section 5c(c)(5)(C) must first construe that subsection's intent. This exercise is difficult because the legislature was not thoughtful or careful when drafting this and other language in the Commodity Exchange Act (' CEA ').  Simply put, the lawyerly ambition of eliciting Congressional intent from the language of the statute is too optimistic regarding the legislative  process.    Notwithstanding  that  Congress  wields  tremendous  power  over  the  U.S. economy and the livelihoods that depend on it, repeated experience with drafting shows that this power is sometimes used in a neglectful manner with little thought or care.  Expert agencies such as the CFTC are left with the task of asserting Congressional intent and then dressing up chaotic realities  in  the  garb  of  legislative  intent  through  reasoning  or  rhetoric.    It  is  for  you  and  your colleagues to engage in the linguistic and hopefully somewhat logical task through which principle and reality somewhat cohere.  Of course, that coherence is strained when the agency is mired in political  disagreement;  the  mix  of  debate  and  agitation  expose  the  weaknesses  and  artifice  in agency efforts to achieve sensible regulatory aims that Congress fails to specify and/or enable, further eroding legitimacy.  In this regard, I recall the statement then Commissioner Quintenz issued when ErisX withdrew its three proposed contracts that would settle on NFL games. A substantial thrust to his critical observations was that the CFTC was playing too great a role in defining public interest.  As a matter of theory that is supposed to be embodied in our representative democracy, there is substantial merit to the arguments Comm'r Quintenz then made.  But as a pragmatic  matter,  his  vision  (and  the  vision  of  inexperienced  conservative  judges  he  cites)  is unachievable and corrosive.  It is for the CFTC to do the hard, non-democratic work of defining public interest and otherwise making law because if the CFTC doesn't do this work, no one with any competence will.  Many decades of poor draftsmanship in the CEA confirm this.

With that  background, there  are  basic  textual  issues  that  should  be  resolved  in  addressing restrictions on event contracts.

First, there is the interpretation of the reference to 'section 1a(2)(i)' in the following language:

'In connection with the listing of agreements, contracts, transactions, or swaps in excluded commodities that are based upon the occurrence, extent of an occurrence, or contingency (other than a change in price, rate, value, or levels of a commodity described in section 1a(2)(i)), by a designated contract market or swap execution facility, the Commission may determine that such agreements, contracts, or transactions are contrary to the public interest if the agreements, contracts or transactions involve [certain matters].'

Prior  CFTC  releases  such  as  the  initial  §  40.11  rulemaking  have  assumed  or  argued  that  the reference to section 1a(2)(i) is a reference to the first part of the excluded commodity definition in Section 1a(19).  This is reflected in public commentary on this question as well, such as the article

from Dave Aron and Matt Jones. (Dave  Aron  &amp;  Matt  Jones, States'  Big  Gamble  on  Sports  Betting ,  12  UNLV GAMING L.J. 53, 67 (2021)  ('The reference to 'la(2)(i)' is nonsensical . . . The authors believe that Congress instead meant to refer to CEA § la(19)(i), a reading consistent with CEA § 5c(c)(5)(C)(i)'s focus on excluded commodities.').) I share the general impression that here Congress made a typo, particularly due to the large - but incomplete - overlap between the language used in Section 5c(c)(5)(C)(i) and the language in 1a(2)(19)(iv).  As a reminder, the latter subsection includes a reference to Section 1(a)(19)(i) where the inexplicable reference to Section 1a(2)(i) occurs.  Likely, some Congressional staffer hit a few wrong keys and although dozens of reviewers were supposed to catch this mistake, none bothered enough to do the job they are supposed to do.

There is a second interpretive challenge, however, here that doesn't get as much attention. There is likely an error in the definition of 'excluded commodity' in Section 1a(19).  Specifically, there is an extra negation in clause 1a(19)(iv). (Section  1a(19)  reads  as  follows  with  my  underlining  added:  '(19)  EXCLUDED  COMMODITY.-The  term 'excluded commodity' means-
(i) an interest rate, exchange rate, currency, security, security index, credit risk or measure, debt or equity instrument, index or measure of inflation, or other macroeconomic index or measure;
(ii) any other rate, differential, index, or measure of economic or commercial risk, return, or value that is-
(I) not based in substantial part on the value of a narrow group of commodities not described in clause (i); or
(II) based solely on one or more commodities that have no cash market;
(iii) any economic or commercial index based on prices, rates, values, or levels that are not within the control of any party to the relevant contract, agreement, or transaction; or
(iv) an occurrence, extent of an occurrence, or contingency (other than a change in the price, rate, value, or level of a commodity not described in clause (i)) that is-
(I) beyond the control of the parties to the relevant contract, agreement, or transaction; and
(II) associated with a financial, commercial, or economic consequence.') In my view, that clause intends to cover products that are not based on an interest rate, exchange rate, currency, security, macroeconomic variables, and other items referenced in Section 1a(19)(i).  Otherwise, Section 1a(19)(iv) would cover only contracts based on an occurrence, extent of occurrence of contingency related to a variable listed in Section 1a(19)(i); this result would make Section 1a(19)(iv) largely redundant to 1a(19)(i) and would make a reference to it in the context of Section 5c(c)(5)(C)(i) make little sense.  Without this correction to 1a(19)(iv), which would strip out an extra 'not', contracts on various contests (e.g., elections, NFL games, Emmys) would not fall under Section 1a(19) and thus be treated as exempt  commodities.    This  result  would  treat  these  event  contracts  like  contracts  on  energy products and metals.  This result would also put them outside of the ambit of Section 5c(c)(5)(C), which is inconsistent with any Congressional purpose of having the CFTC pay extra attention to contracts involving terrorism, assassination, war, gaming, etc.  As part of this rulemaking, the CFTC should clarify the definition of excluded commodities in Section 1a(19).  It appears that the CFTC has implicitly accepted that Section 1a(19)(iv) includes an extra 'not' in the Proposing Release. (Proposing Release, 89 Fed. Reg. 48968, 48972 (omitting the extra 'not' appearing in the statute when discussing the statutory language in the following excerpt '[The CFTC] is proposing to amend §§ 40.11(a)(1)-(2) and § 40.11(c) to refer to agreements, contracts, transactions, or swaps in excluded commodities based on the occurrence, extent of an occurrence, or contingency (other than a change in the price, rate, value, or levels of a commodity described in section 1a(19)(i) of the Act).')) Notably,  the  same  confusing  and  likely  erroneous  drafting  occurs  in  Section 1a(19)(ii)(I), and should also be clarified as part of this rulemaking due to the centrality of the excluded commodity definition to Section 5c(c)(5)(C).

For  the  same  reason,  and  as  a  matter  of  statutory  interpretation  applying  reasonable corrective revisions to the CEA, I read the scope of potential Section 5c(c)(5)(C) prohibitions as excluding  products  covered  under  Section  1a(19)(i),  such  as  those  based  on:  (a)  economic indicators, including the CPI and other price indices; the U.S. trade deficit with another country; measures related to GDP, jobless claims, or the unemployment rate; and U.S. new home sales; (b) financial  indicators,  including  the  federal  funds  rate;  total  U.S.  credit  card  debt;  fixed-rate mortgage averages (e.g., the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage interest rate); and end of day, week, or month values for broad-based stock indexes; and (c) foreign exchange rates or currencies.

I  do  not  view  numerical  values  produced  through  the  lawmaking effort (as opposed to decentralized economic activity) as falling within the scope of Section 1a(19)(i).  For example, corporate  tax  rates,  tariff  levels,  allocations  for  industrial  subsidies,  and  similar  variables  are produced through centralized decision-making and may be within the scope of Section 5c(c)(5)(C). There is ample scholarship demonstrating the weakness of markets in producing accurate pricing with  respect  to  political  decisions (As discussed below, contracts settling on the basis of policymakers' decisions typically exhibit highly noisy pricing and do not fulfill the jurisdictional prerequisites under Section 3(a) of the CEA, being unjustified from a hedging or price discovery perspective. See generally Rebecca Haw Allensworth, Prediction Markets and Law , 122 HARV. L. REV. 1217 (2009) (describing circumstances such as where information is secret or not widely dispersed that market function  is  expected  to  fail). See also Erik  Snowberg,  Justin  Wolfers  and  Eric  Zitzewitz, Prediction Markets for Economic Forecasting at 12 (June 13, 2012) (published in Handbook of Economic Forecasting) ('[T]raders may quite rationally choose not to trade in markets where there is a high degree of insider information. For example, despite the high intrinsic interest in who a Supreme Court nominee will be, markets on this topic have routinely failed.').) ,  and  there  are  common  sense  concerns  with  corruption, manipulation, and the appearance thereof when contracts settle on the basis of decisions by small groups  of  elected  individuals  and  their  representatives.    A  better  candidate  for  a  derivative contracts  falling  under  CEA  Section  1a(19)(i)  would  be  one  that  settled  on  the  basis  of,  e.g., observed effective tax rates among S&P500 companies.  This metric (unlike the de jure corporate tax rates) would be substantially the product of economic activity as opposed to governmental policymaking.

More generally, and as discussed below, I urge the CFTC to ban trading of products based on outcomes attributable to the deliberate decisions of identifiable individuals or organizations, subject to a limitation where the group becomes sufficiently large (e.g., an industry, or a set of firms composing a broad index of securities).  Naturally, questions will be raised as to where individual decisionmaking aggregates to macro-relevance, but the CFTC (together with the SEC) has ample experience with this question in the context of security-indices.  An arbitrary line will have to be drawn.  But in the core examples of organizational decisionmaking, the risk that market positions influence insiders' decisions is both too high and too unlike the nature of risks the CFTC has  experience  and  expertise  policing.    Moreover,  in  these  contexts,  markets  are  weak  price aggregators.

## 2. Defining, as a policy matter, which categories of products will be prohibited under Section 5c(c)(5)(C) .

The  proposing  release  requests  comments  on  what  products  should  be  treated  as  those involving  '(I)  activity  that  is  unlawful  under  any  Federal  or  State  law;  (II)  terrorism;  (III) assassination; (IV) war; (V) gaming; or (VI) other similar activity . . . .'  Admittedly, this requires the CFTC to engage in considerations beyond its typical remit of caring for the health of derivatives markets and related cash markets.  It is for this very reason that a broad reading of the prohibition would be appropriate, because enabling the listing of socially controversial products suspends the application  of  state  law  through  preemption  and  puts  pressure  on  CFTC  resources  as  primary watchdog  for  the  products.    While  the  CFTC  is  ill  equipped  to  make  these  public  interest determinations, it is even less well equipped to supervise trading where it has implications for mental health (e.g., gambling addiction), foreign policy (e.g., elections, war, assassination and terrorism),  government  integrity  (e.g.,  elections  and  policy,  war,  assassination,  terrorism),  and other matters whose social relevance is to a great extent beyond the boundaries of commerce and finance.  Furthermore, lack of clarity provides a disservice to the platforms interested in listing the contracts for the benefit of their outside lawyers.  While there is uncertainty, applications will be made, denied, and only law firms will profit while clients lose money and CFTC resources are exhausted.  A bright line rule has significant advantages over product-by-product determinations.

Regarding the term 'gaming', I agree that the term should cover 'the staking or risking by any person of something of value upon: (i) the outcome of a contest of others; (ii) the outcome of a game involving skill or chance; (iii) the performance of one or more competitors in one or more contests or games; or (iv) any other occurrence or non-occurrence in connection with one or more contests or games.'  This definition should be clarified to include other contests, such as legal adjudications (e.g., who will win a certain trial), races to invent or commercial products (e.g., will a vaccine for an epidemic be patented by a certain date) and market share measures (e.g., will Pepsi's share of the soft drink market increase by 1% from 1/1/2025 to 1/1/2026).  Similarly, events  and  contingencies  based  on  cessation  of,  or  reduction  in,  competition  should  also  be excluded from the permissible subjects for derivative products (e.g., whether Ukraine joins NATO, whether a bilateral treaty is reached, and perhaps whether humans succeed in causing a specie's extinction).  Simply put, these events result from prices too idiosyncratic to analogize to products traditionally  within  the  CFTC's  remit  under  Section  3(a).    Products  based  on  these  types  of underliers raise issues of moral hazard.  And their ability to assist in hedging or price discovery is too limited, and instead, these products are too likely to be used for gambling (i.e., gaming). (In  addition,  products  on  market  share  -  like  products  on  specific  merger  or  acquisition  transactions,  as  well  as products on factors relevant to a specific firm's costs, revenues or other financial features - should not be regulated without input from the SEC.) As insulation from court challenge, products discussed in this paragraph should also be treated as products  banned  under  state  law  and  products  in  'similar  activity'  to  those  listed  in  Section 5c(c)(5)(C).  As a reminder, while many states have expanded legal gambling in recent years some have not.  And as the proposing release notes, a number of states have definitions of illicit gambling or gaming that are broader than the proposed definition.

Care should be taken, however, in prohibiting products that involve activities that violate state law.  The CFTC should not enable one or few states to shut down national derivatives markets to  the  detriment  of  innovative  commercial  practices.    The  suite  of  products  banned  under  any Section 5c(c)(5)(C) rulemaking should include products based on any activity that is unlawful under Federal law; however, subject to specified and narrowly tailored exceptions, the scope of the ban should not cover products based on activities that are unlawful only under one or a few States' laws.  As a bright line, the per se ban under Section 5c(c)(5)(C) may be imposed if at least ten (10) States' laws ban the activity, with contract specific review applicable where fewer than ten (10) States ban the relevant activity.

In addition, when defining the scope of prohibited products, 'other similar activity' should cover events such as fires at specific locations (whether or not due to arson), a health status event for an individual (such as illness, incapacitation, or death), privacy breaches (whether inadvertent or due to cyberattack), and other instances where one or more individual is injured as a result of what may or may not have been a crime.  These kinds of adverse events are best left to insurance markets, which have mechanisms for investigating occurrences and distinguishing between bad luck and foul play.  In economic terms, these contracts both pose moral hazard and are generally unfit for market listing due to low value from a hedging or price discovery perspective and high likelihood of noisy pricing.  To be clear, while contracts on a fire at a specific building should be banned, contracts as to the number of significant fires in a geographic area over a period of time could be permitted.  Again, there is a line drawing problem - but the CFTC should not put itself in a position where inquiring into market manipulation is synonymous with pursuing traditional law enforcement concerns (e.g., investigating a fire as potential arson in the course of an inquiry whether a market participant inappropriately influenced contract settlement).

## 3. How should the CFTC assess 'public interest' in the context of Section 5c(c)(5)(C)?

There are many factors that inform whether a product's listing is in the public' interest and these factors vary by category of contract.  That said, the CFTC must always consider whether a contract serves hedging or price discovery functions when assessing whether it is appropriate to permit listing of the product on a designated contract market or swap execution facility.  That obligation arises under Section 3(a) of the CEA, which provides (with emphasis added):

'(a) FINDINGS.-The transactions subject to this Act are entered into regularly in interstate and international commerce and are affected with a national public interest by providing a means for managing and assuming price risks, discovering prices, or disseminating pricing information through trading in liquid, fair and financially secure trading facilities.'

In specifying what transactions fall under the CEA, Section 3(a) is also implicitly stating what transactions  are  outside  of  the  CEA  and  remain  subject  to  state  law.    Only  the  transactions advancing  the  public  interests  identified  in  Section  3(a)  are  eligible  for  exchange  listing.

Transactions that do not advance either interest beyond a de minimis threshold are outside of the CEA, as developed in my draft Article included in the Appendix to this comment letter. (Although Congress referenced specific types of event contracts in the Dodd-Frank Act when it added Section 5c(c)(5)(C), Congress did not rescind Section 3(a) or affirm that previously authorized contracts were consistent with Section 3(a).)

The public interest that the CEA is intended to achieve can be divided between 'managing and  assuming  price  risks'  (i.e.,  hedging)  and  'discovering  prices,  or  disseminating  pricing information' (i.e., enabling cash market pricing on the basis of prices developed in derivatives markets).  This statement of purpose was adopted with the Commodity Futures Modernization Act (CFMA) of 2000.  At the time, it replaced a statement of purpose that is traceable to the 1920s and 1930s era, long before the CFTC was founded and when commodity-derivative regulation was in service of agricultural markets.  While one may argue the price discovery goals referred to in the CFMA language relate to aggregating information through pricing as a goal in itself without regard to  cash  markets (As background, economic theory drawing on Hayekian insights sometimes uses the term 'price discovery' to refer simply to the capacity of markets to aggregate information about supply and demand through the price formed through market  interactions.    Under  this  definition,  any  price  is  itself  valuable  as  an  aggregation  of  information.    Many prediction  markets  have  designed  products  so  that  their  pricing  reflects  dispersed  estimates  of  event  likelihoods, highlighting the value of a market-set price without more.  However, price discovery in this Hayekian sense is foreign to the CEA.) ,  this  is  inconsistent  with  the  history  of  the  language  used  in  Section  3(a). Throughout  the  1990s  and  in  the  runup  to  the  enactment  of  the  CFMA,  regulators  and  other professional commentators referred to 'discovering prices' and 'disseminating pricing information' as functions serving related cash markets. (See,  for  example, Testimony  of  CFTC  Chair  Mary  Shapiro  before  the  House  Banking  and  Financial  Services Committee (March 30, 1995) ('Commodity futures and options contracts are risk-shifting instruments that . . . provide a means to construct and adjust hedges on all types of commodities and financial instruments quickly and cheaply . . . In addition, because the price of a futures or option contract is derived from the value of an underlying commodity, the  prices  that  result  from  futures  trading  serve  as  reference  points  in  cash  markets.');  Report  of  the  President's Working Group on Financial Markets, Over the Counter Derivatives Markets and the Commodity Exchange Act (Nov. 1999) (in arguing against the regulation of swaps markets, distinguishing swaps from futures in that the former do not serve the price discovery functions that the latter have served); A New Regulatory Framework for Trading Facilities, Intermediaries and Clearing Organizations , 66 Fed. Reg. 14262, 14267 (March 9, 2001) (discussing price discovery and price dissemination  as  serving  price  formation  in  cash  markets  referenced  by  regulated  derivatives); Exempt Commercial Markets , 68 Fed. Reg. 66032, 66034-35 (Nov. 25, 2003) (same).)

For many event contracts, there are no relevant cash markets and only their hedging utility can qualify them for the privilege of regulation under the CEA (i.e., preemption of regulation under state  law).    To  be  clear,  the  CFTC  has  no  authority  to  regulate  a  product  that  does  not  have significant  hedging  or  price  discovery  functions  just  as  the  CFTC  would  have  no  authority  to regulate cars or avocados should a designated contract market or swap execution facility launch sales of vehicles or vegetables.  It may be that some products listed on one or more regulated platforms do not qualify as commodity interests, and are instead subject to state law regulation for these reasons.  But while prior self-certifications may have been lightly reviewed, this is a good time to take stock and reassert the boundaries of the CEA.  In this regard, it is useful to reference the  long  history  of  trading  in  futures  under  state  law  for  non-agricultural  products  until  the Commodity  Futures  Trading  Commission  Act  of  1974  famously  expanded  the  definition  of commodity; for example, silver futures traded for at least half a century outside of the CEA, and instead subject to state law.  Event contracts (like other products) that do not exhibit significant hedging  or  price  discovery  utility  should  not  get  the  benefit  of  preemption  accorded  to  listed products regulated under the CEA.

Respecting this limitation is not just a matter of legislative prescription.  It also reflects sensible policy.  In the millennia-long history of social evolution and adaptation, markets mediated through a common currency are an epic innovation.  Markets are capable of managing supply and demand, and enabling mutually beneficial exchange.  Market price can provide substantial insight into the terms at which exchange is mutually beneficial.  However, decades of study have identified limitations on the utility of markets and derivation of prices.  In particular, in financial markets, price is meaningful to the extent that it reflects future performance of the relevant financial product. Different  regulators  focus  on  different  types  of  financial  products  and  distinct  dimensions  of product performance.  For example, the SEC is primarily concerned with securities; securities are transacted  in  for  two  overwhelming  purposes:  capital  formation  and  investment.    Gaming regulators are primarily concerned with balancing the entertainment value of gambling with its addictive  and  exploitative  potentials,  while  minimizing  illicit  transactions  that  breed  criminal enterprise.  The CFTC is neither a securities regulator nor a gaming regulator.  In fact, the origins of federal futures regulation predate federal securities regulation and stem from the recognition, initially by the Supreme Court of the United States and then Congress (Bd. of Trade of City of Chicago v. Christie Grain &amp; Stock Co. , 198 U.S. 236, 249 (1905) (distinguishing CBOT futures transactions resolved through offset from illegal gambling at bucket shops where settlement took place on the basis of differences between prices at initiation and prices at settlement); Grain Futures Act, Section 3 (1922) (defining the purpose of commodity derivative regulation in a manner that was verbose and focused on grain products but conceptually tracked current Section 3(a) of the CEA through a focus on hedging and assisting cash market pricing). It is worth repeating that the current CEA's statutory purpose as reflected in Section 3(a) is substantially the same as the purpose of the original Grain Futures Act, and that legislative history of amendments to Section 3(a) shows no intention to depart from those goals (instead, the textual changes made in 2000 broadened the language beyond grain products and updated archaic phrasing).) ,  of  the  importance of futures  markets  for  hedging  in  the  agricultural  sector  and  establishing  prices  for  cash  market transactions in that sector.  Historically, the primary reason commercial market participants turn to futures markets (and later, option and then swaps markets) is for hedging.  And historically, there has been an important line between products governed by the CEA and gaming.

Market  integrity  relies  on  the  price  formation  mechanism,  which  in  turn  relies  on interactions between informed traders and other participants in the market.  These interactions may be direct, but are often intermediated through market makers.  Prices become accurate in financial markets through traders  developing  and  trading  on  private  information,  i.e.,  through  informed trading.  Informed buying updates prices upward, and informed selling updates prices downwards. Informed trading, however, cannot by itself produce substantial market liquidity.  If everyone in the market is informed and knows they are trading against other informed traders, rationality will dampen willingness to trade. (For similar reasons, where accurate price must be based on information that is only available to a few potential market participants and/or is guarded (e.g., as a terrorist cell may guard information about its plots through threats of physical harm to those revealing the plot, or as a government body may guard information about future policy through disciplinary measures against employees revealing such information) reliable pricing is unlikely to emerge.) While  a  particular  trader  has  information  (s)he  believes  is  not known to other market participants and influences future returns from the product, that same trader also knows that other market participants will take the opposite position only if they hold private information that leans in the opposite direction.  While informed traders may lead to more accurate prices, their presence in the market suppresses liquidity.  Instead, liquidity derives from trading that is motivated by other purposes.  In other words, price tuning through informed trading relies on non-informed traders participating in the market for purposes other than to make profits from private information. (The tradeoff between liquidity and price accuracy in financial markets has been developed through decades of scholarship exploring the interaction of informed traders and other market participants. See, for example, Albert S. Kyle, Continuous Auctions and Insider Trading, 53 ECONOMETRICA 1315 (1985); Lawrence R. Glosten and Paul R. Milgrom, Bid, Ask and Transaction Prices in a Specialist Market with Heterogeneously Informed Traders, 14 J. FIN. ECON. 71 (1985); Lawrence Harris, LIQUIDITY, TRADING RULES AND ELECTRONIC TRADING SYSTEMS, New York University Salomon Center Monograph Series in Finance and Economics, Monograph 1990-4, (Feb. 1991).) This purpose is primarily investment in securities markets; every month, millions of Americans make automatic contributions to 401(k) and similar retirement programs, which result in purchases of billions of dollars of shares.  These purchases take place not because the  savers  have  private  information  about  the  firms  issuing  such  shares,  but  because  we  have become comfortable with the premise that in the long term, investors receive substantial returns for parking their savings in public securities markets (e.g., via a passive mutual fund that tracks a broad equity index).  These investors do not care if they are paying a few dollars more or less for a particular share than its worth, because in the long run, they will receive returns far in excess of those few dollars that they may be losing to exploitation of their informational deficiencies.  This liquidity from passive investors enables informed traders to make profits through research and informed trades.  It is the presence and substantial liquidity from uninformed investors that invites informed trading, ultimately leading to improved price accuracy in public securities markets.

Similar dynamics take place in gambling contexts.  Gamblers are driven by entertainment goals (as well as addiction and other psychological factors) and for this reason do not care that when they wager the objective expectation is that they will lose money.  To the extent there is informed  trading  in  gambling  markets  beyond  the  intermediaries,  the  behavior  of  nonsophisticated participants (e.g., those gambling for entertainment, addicts) provides the liquidity for predictors to do the research and enter the market.

The  same  tradeoffs  between  liquidity  and  price  accuracy  enable  successful  derivatives markets under the CFTC's purview.  Informed trading follows the participation of traders whose first  priority  is  not  taking  advantage  of  private  information  as  to  the  future  performance  of  a financial product.  Historically, in derivatives markets, these liquidity generating traders have been hedgers.  While commodity positions can be used to track inflation, they do not typically generate beta in the manner of securities products. (Products on broad based security indices and other security-related products are omitted from this discussion. They may exhibit dynamics distinct from other products within the CFTC’s purview and may deserve separate study on the part of the CFTC. Some (e.g., metals and energy) contracts may also exhibit returns consistent with investment motives. These qualifications, however, are irrelevant to the discussion of event contracts. By design, binary option offerings from Kalshi, Hedge Street, and other exchanges have been less than zero sum. As a result, they are nonfunctional for investment where investment seeks exposure to long term market returns.) In other words, unlike securities markets, commodity prices  do  not  keep  up  with  economic  expansion let  alone  profitability  growth  observed  across publicly traded companies.  Or stated in another way, futures products (and related options) on many  agricultural,  metal,  energy,  currency,  etc.  commodities  have  not  been  attractive  for investment.  Simply put, whereas those providing capital to a company can share in that company's growth (i.e., the dynamic in securities markets), those buying a traditional commodity long (let alone selling it short) are not able to participate in the profit generating activities of one or more organizations.    Nor  have  commodity  derivative  markets  traditionally  served  entertainment purposes (nor should they).  Instead, to the extent non-informed traders participate in the CFTC's markets, these traders have sought access to products for hedging purposes. These traders receive risk management benefits through derivatives markets that compensate for any losses they may incur through accepting market prices.  It is such traders that generate liquidity, and it is their presence in the market that attracts informed traders.  Without a hedging purpose, CFTC products historically  haven't  generated  liquidity  from  uninformed  traders  -  and  thus  failed  to  invite informed traders into the ecosystem.  In the absence of informed traders, prices should not be expected to reflect expectations of long-term returns.  As a result, without hedgers, neither the price  discovery nor the hedging purposes are likely to be served. Instead, to the extent robust liquidity develops, it reflects leakage of speculation for the sake of speculation into derivatives markets (i.e., personal consumption through entertainment, education or other experiences derived from trading).

Recent technological and contractual innovations have increased the risk of gambling and other forms of personal consumption activity through derivatives markets.  Exchanges have overtly focused on broadening their clientele to retail customers.  Online trading makes the expenses of supporting a pit irrelevant.  Technology also greatly reduces the costs of advertising, particularly to retail customers who do not expect expensive features or customer support.  Products such as binary options enable full funding at the outset, and thus obviate the operational costs of margin and other risk management. (Although it is not a subject I have looked into deeply, I am tentatively somewhat skeptical of micro contracts as well because few retail traders appear to be using them for hedging as opposed to gambling purposes due to the observed short durations of open positions among retail traders.  See Alex Ferko, Scott Mixon, Esen Onur, Retail Traders in Futures Markets , OCE Staff Papers and Reports, Number 2023-002 (October, 2023).) These contracts are easy to launch for exchanges, and the positions are easy to enter into for retail participants.  At the same time, many of the new contracts settle on the basis of newsworthy events that receive attention from amateur prognosticators.  Unless these contracts  have  significant  hedging  utility,  they  have  no  prospect  of  surviving  except  through cultivating a mentality among retail traders that engaging with these contracts is a form of personal consumption (e.g., entertainment, education).  These are not the purposes CFTC regulated markets have served, and these are not the participant goals that the CEA is designed to protect.  The CEA has never been about furthering markets devoted solely to speculation.  Furthermore, this business model  on  the  part  of  exchanges  will  encourage  marketing  to  retail  investors  that  ultimately undermines public faith in CFTC regulation.  If this business model can not be restricted through per se rules such as those being considered in the Proposing Release, it should be deterred through filing fees.  The costs of experimenting with retail products are too low given the impact on CFTC resources and derivatives market participants.  One approach would be to impose substantial fees per new product listing, where part of the fee is returned after the platform demonstrates a history of substantial trading in the product.  These fees could both deter exchanges from 'throwing pasta at  the  wall'  in  product  innovation,  and  offset  the  drain  on  CFTC  resources  from  these  new launches.

To sum up, unless an event contract has hedging utility it will either: (a) fail to attract liquidity  and  the  informed  trading  that  contributes  to  price  accuracy,  or  (b)  come  to  rely  on consumption motives among retail investors for its survival.  Neither kind of market is consistent with the purpose the CEA had in extending federal regulation and preempting state law.

Where  there  is  a  genuine  question  as  to  whether  a  product  has  hedging  utility,  it  is reasonable to expect that the platform submitting the product to the CFTC will have internal studies demonstrating the hedging utility.  As part of product development, platforms interview potential customers, and in particular, the community that may use a product for hedging purposes.  For example, in launching event contracts on heating and cooling degree days, the CME interviewed utility companies to identify the temperature at which air-conditioning and heating systems are activated, thereby arriving at the 65 degree Fahrenheit baseline. (See CME, Overview of Weather Markets available online at https://www.cmegroup.com/education/lessons/overview-of-weather-markets.html ('A 'degree day' is a measure of how much a day's temperature deviates from 65 degrees Fahrenheit, or 18 degrees Celsius. This baseline temperature was established by utility companies after observing that air conditioners and furnaces are usually turned on when the temperature rises above or falls below this benchmark.')) Without documented interests on  the  part  of  potential  customers,  a  product  should  not  launch.    Regulatory  certification  or approval  for  a  well-designed  product  with  bona  fide  hedging  potential  is  not  a  high-risk proposition, and thus can procedurally follow the other stages of product development.  If at the time of regulatory submission there is a question as to the hedging utility of a product, the surveys and other marketing information the platform developed prior to submission can be referenced to assess hedging utility.  This marketing information may be qualitative, but frequently includes quantitative  components.    The  CFTC  should  engage  with  ex-employees  of  major  derivative exchanges'  marketing  and  product  development  departments  and  through  those  consulting arrangements obtain a realistic understanding of the internal information an exchange should be expected to have.

Substantial upfront fees when filing a product followed by earnouts based on product usage could also help bond exchanges to responsible innovation.  As an alternative or complement to ex ante evidence of hedging utility, ex post data on market utilization of the products could be used. Where an exchange can submit information to the CFTC identifying through customer data how a product is being used to hedge, the exchange would be refunded a portion of a hefty fee that is paid at the time of product submission (via either the self-certification or approval pathway).  To clarify, first - at the time of product submission - the exchange would pay a substantial fee; and second, when the exchange submits evidence of customers using the product to hedge, part of the fee would be refunded.  Exchanges are better positioned than the CFTC to collect customer data on product usage, and are likely to want to do this in any case so as to further product development and support.  The CFTC can leverage exchange access to customer usage information towards assessing hedging utility and other features of interest.

Before  moving  on  it  is  important  to  note  that  once  a  type  of  product  is  permitted  for gambling or other personal consumption purposes, there is a natural demand for hedging.  This kind of bootstrapping should not be permitted.  For example, once a number of states legalized sports gambling, local bookies built books.  Those books had imbalanced exposure due to, among other reasons, home teams generally being overly preferred by gamblers.  As a result, bookies in (e.g., California and New York) had reason to offset risk through swapping exposure with one another and narrowing spreads.  Indeed, this was the theory behind the three contract types ErisX tried to list.  Platforms legal under state law (e.g., Draft Kings, Fan Duel, Caesars), however, should not  be  able  to  always  turn  to  federally  regulated  derivatives  markets  for  hedging  commercial exposure. (For  this  reason,  I  disagree  with  statements  from  ex-Commissioner  Berkovitz  on  the  ErisX  certification. https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/SpeechesTestimony/berkovitzstatement040721) If this was enabled, there would be no limiting principle.  For example, if a state or foreign jurisdiction successfully legalized platforms where wagers were taken on future wars or assassinations,  those  platforms  would  have  hedging  needs.    But  should  federally  regulated derivatives markets serve those needs?  I think the answer is plainly no.  It is for this reason that gaming and a number of other items were carved out under 5c(c)(5)(C) irrespective of whether or not they violate Federal or State law. In other words, a bona fide hedging need is generally a necessary  but  insufficient  reason  for  approving  a  product.    A  single  jurisdiction  legalizing wagering on an event or otherwise permitting an anti-social activity enables a good faith argument that there is a hedging need in relation to positions related to that activity - but this should not be enough for product approval.

The  utility  of  a  product  for  hedging  or  price  discovery  purposes  is  not  the  only consideration  that  is  relevant  in  the  course  of  a  public  interest  analysis.    As  CFTC-regulated derivative markets evolve, new risks need to be considered.  These risks will vary based on the type  of  product.    Additional  considerations  may  include  concerns  regarding  moral  hazard, interference  with  States'  police  power,  the  competencies  and  resources  of  the  CFTC,  the jurisdiction and authority of the CFTC, public perceptions of regulated markets, protecting market participants from fraud and manipulation as well as other matters of market integrity, the reliability of prices for the product (e.g., whether relevant information is available only to a few individuals and/or is guarded as secret), the risks of corruption (or perception thereof) with respect to public and private bodies, and other matters.

* * *

The evolution of event contract products poses a classic case of where law struggles to keep up with markets.  Changes on various dimensions (including technology, scale, commercial practice,  and  cultural  attitudes  to  financial  market  participation)  have  prompted  products  that challenge assumptions the CEA and its regulatory framework have been built on.  The CFTC has a difficult role in making the CEA fit new possibilities for derivatives trading.

A rational approach to regulation builds on information and enlists the assistance and input of interested parties.  I applaud your work and appreciate the difficult decisions that have to be made.  However, I also urge you to invest in information, data and descriptive resources to help make derivatives markets and their regulation more accessible.  I understand the CFTC is strained for resources, however, the website has deficiencies that make it difficult for researchers such as myself  to  participate  in  notice  and  comment  rulemaking  processes  or  otherwise  enrich  the regulatory environment.  For example, the CFTC purports to list previously approved and self certified products. However, the data the CFTC provides to the public is incomplete.  Among other things, the CFTC's database fails to include documentation for many of the contracts it lists, despite having received this documentation from DCMs making submissions.  While it would take work on the part  of  the  CFTC  to  complete  the  public  database  of  designated  contract  market products, the CFTC would also benefit from third parties then using this data to study derivatives markets and inform the CFTC.  As another example, the Commitments of Traders data is poorly formatted and difficult to use. More devastatingly, the CFTC updates the data on a weekly basis, deleting past data.  As a result, any longitudinal analysis is impossible (short of making FOIA requests for the data that gets hidden every week when new data is added).  It would be relatively easy for the CFTC to provide the Commitments of Traders data in a format usable in statistical analysis  packages  and  to  make  historical  data  available.    In  other  words,  help  well  meaning researchers help you!

The CFTC is uniquely positioned to gather and disseminate information on derivatives markets, contributing not only to transparency but fundamental understanding.  I believe these kinds of investments are worth it, and in addition to providing data, the CFTC would do well to engage in concept releases that revisit and organize thinking on core issues informing derivative market regulation.

* * *

I  would  be  glad  to  hear  from  you  at  ilya.beylin@shu.edu  to  discuss  these  and  related matters further whether via setting up a call or through correspondence.

Sincerely,

Professor Ilya Beylin

## INTRODUCTION

In the U.S., derivatives trading began when the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) developed a market in grain futures soon after the Civil War. (Part I.A., infra . See also Gideon Mark, Spoofing and Layering , 45 J. CORP. L. 101 (2019) ('The futures industry traces its origin to agricultural commodities trading in the 1860s.').)   Since their inception, futures did not exist for their own sake but instead to assist activities in so called 'cash' or 'spot' markets, i.e., business activities involving assets referenced in the futures contract. (William L. Stein, The Exchange-Trading Requirement of the Commodity Exchange  Act ,  41  VAND.  L.  REV.  473,  474-75  (1988)  (discussing  cash  or  spot market for grain).)  For example, early wheat futures required one party to buy a specified amount of a grade of wheat at a specified time and location and the other party to sell that wheat, at the specified  time  and  location. (Part I.A., infra .)    As  discussed  in  Part  I  below,  this enabled the management of risk and establishment of prices with respect to transactions in wheat all over the U.S. (Part I.C., infra .)

For  example,  a  farmer  could  go  'short'  through  the  futures contract (i.e., sell the grain under the contract) to neutralize her risk that grain prices fluctuate.  Through selling wheat under the futures contract, the farmer sells at today's prices with settlement taking place in the future through an exchange of the referenced commodity for cash.  If prices for wheat increase, the farmer will (i) lose money under the futures contract because the price of wheat at the time of delivery under the futures contract exceeds what she sold it for, but (ii) experience increased revenues from the harvest. If, on the other hand, prices fall, the farmer will (i) profit under the futures contract,  and  (b)  suffer  offsetting  losses  as  she  sells  her harvest at the lower price.  A bakery can similarly use grain futures to guard against prices fluctuations.  The bakery would go 'long' through the futures contract (i.e., buy the grain).  This would mean that  if  wheat  prices  decline,  the  bakery  loses  under  the  futures contract but is able to procure its ingredients at a lower cost. And reciprocally,  if  grain  prices  increase,  the  value  of  the  bakery's futures  position  increases  although  its  procurement  costs  rise. These examples of a farmer and baker using a futures contract are quintessential examples of hedging, i.e., risk transfer.  Trade in futures contracts also generates prices (i.e., how much do parties in  the  futures  market  demand to take a long or short position). Cash markets reference the prices established in futures markets in lieu of developing pricing independently.  As reviewed in more detail in Part I, derivatives are not viewed as an end in themselves. Instead, the regulation of derivatives is based on their historical contributions to hedging and pricing in cash markets. (As in other contexts, the justification for permitting the activities of 'Wall Street' are that they serve the interests of 'Main Street'.  Part I.C., infra .)

This Article argues that the development  of derivatives products has become unmoored from these twin statutory goals. The  source  of  federal  derivatives  regulation  is  the  Commodity Exchange Act (CEA). (7 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.) The federal regulator of derivatives markets is the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). (7 U.S.C. § 2.) Among its  various  roles  under  the  CEA,  the  CFTC  authorizes  the derivatives  products  that  exchanges  make  available  to  market participants. (17 C.F.R. §§ 40.2 and 40.3 (providing alternative routes for submitting a new product for CFTC review before the product may be traded on a CFTCregulated exchange).)  The CFTC also provides a database of all products it  has  authorized  since  its  birth  in  1974. (Archive of listed derivatives products, CFTC https://www.cftc.gov/IndustryOversight/IndustryFilings/TradingOrganizationP roducts (last visited July 23, 2024).)    Through  a  review  of futures contracts the CFTC has authorized, this Article traces a step-by-step drift in the design and function of permitted derivatives instruments. (My  comprehensive  review  examined  all  futures  that  the  CFTC  has authorized prior to 2005, as well as many futures authorized since then.  My review  is  limited  to  futures  on  intangible  asset  classes,  also  referred  to  as excluded commodities under the CEA.  CEA § 1a(20).  In other words, I do not review products with tangible underliers such as foodstuffs, energy products, or metals.  After the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, a number of products that would have been labeled as futures or options instead became labeled as swaps because of the DFA's broad definition of swap that  includes  all  binary  options.    CEA  §  1a(47)(A).    However,  this  semantic difference does not affect the findings or conclusions of this Article because the purpose of the CEA does not distinguish between futures, options and swaps. See  also Dave Aron & Matt Jones, States  Big  Gamble  on  Sports  Betting ,  12 UNLV GAMING L. J. 53, 58, 91 (2021) (this work by two ex-CFTC lawyers argues that the expansion of CFTC regulation to swaps under the Dodd-Frank Act may invalidate a variety of traditional gambling transactions governed under state law).) As described in Part II, the individual steps generally appear justifiable as they sacrifice fidelity to the twin goals to address new forms of risk or serve new clienteles (As  discussed  in  Part  II.C, supra ,  the  CFTC's  authorization  of  binary options first offered by HedgeStreet in the mid-2000s is likely an unjustifiable step in the expansion of permitted derivatives instruments.) but in the aggregate, these steps trace a gross departure from the underpinnings of derivatives regulation. (Part III, infra .)

The  cumulative  drift  in  derivatives  products  has  led  to  the authorization of contracts this Article refers to as 'event contracts.' While the term 'event contract' is not defined in the CEA or CFTC regulations, event contracts are generally understood to be a type of derivative contract based on the outcome of an underlying event where the payoff structure is binary (i.e., either the specified event occurs and a payment is made, or the event does not occur and no payment  is  made). (Event Contracts , 89 Fed. Reg. 48968, 48969 (June 10, 2024).)     As  distinct  from  traditional  futures,  the events driving cash flows under event contracts are not changes in price of a referenced asset.  These events may be as varied as a macroeconomic variable reaching some value (e.g., the unemployment  rate  reaching  five  percent),  a  certain  number  of hurricanes  making  landfall  in  the  U.S.,  or  Taylor  Swift's  most recent album spending a specified period at the top of the Billboard 200. (Part II.C, infra .)   The CFTC has approved all of the foregoing products and thousands  more  without  regard  to  the  statutory  purpose  of derivatives regulation. (Id.) In  doing  so,  it  provides  these  products preemption from state law and enlarges the CFTC's jurisdiction. This  results  from  a  statutory  provision  that  grants  the  CFTC exclusive jurisdiction over any products listed on CFTC-governed exchanges (7 U.S.C. § 2(a)(1)(A).)  As a result, the CFTC has amassed regulatory power while, among other things, suspending protections market participants would receive under state gambling regulation. (Although  the  CFTC  has  acknowledged  that  these  products  serve  a predictive function-as distinct from hedging or pricing functions-the CFTC has  not  wrestled  with  whether  these  products  serve  the  public  interest  its authority  under  the  CEA  is  meant  to  advance. See n.  164, infra ,  and surrounding text.)   This Article  explains  why  the  CFTC  should  review  listed  derivatives products-and event contracts in particular-to identify those that have scant utility for hedging and pricing in cash markets.  These products should be delisted, and instead regulated under state law.

This  Article  proceeds  as  follows.    Part  I  provides  a  novel perspective  on  the  history  of  U.S.  derivatives  regulation.    After introducing  futures and  their pre-regulatory history, Part I identifies the twin purposes driving derivatives regulation since its birth.  Part I also explains the role of the CFTC, and how the CFTC is able to displace state regulation of listed products.  Part II then presents the results of a review of derivatives product development that  led  to  event  contracts  becoming  authorized.    This  novel empirical inquiry reveals the gradual expansion of the universe of listed products, marked by specific innovations in contract design. The evolution is additive, with ingenuity adapting and expanding prior innovations while responding to commercial challenges and new  market  demands. (The  history  also  reveals  the  happenstance  of  success,  illustrating  the chaos of creative destruction. See generally Joseph Schumpeter, CAPITALISM, SOCIALISM AND DEMOCRACY (1942) (providing a theoretical account of progress through commercial cannibalism in capitalist systems).)   Part  II  traces  evolution  in  product offerings to the contemporary availability of event contracts to a retail clientele.  Part III applies the legal background developed in Part I to the evolution of instruments described in Part II.  Part III argues for banning a range of listed products from CFTC-regulated exchanges.  A range of the contracts reviewed in Part II fail to serve either hedging or pricing goals, which Part I establishes are the exclusive goals of the Commodity Exchange Act.  The CFTC erred in  permitting  these  products,  and  should  mandate  they  are delisted.  Part III considers and dispenses with legal and policy arguments  for  making  these  products  available  through  CFTCregulated  exchanges.    The  conclusion  discusses  how  the  CFTC should operationalize the limiting principle on its jurisdiction in review of event contracts.

## I. A BRIEF HISTORY OF U.S. DERIVATIVES REGULATION

The origins of U.S. derivatives markets and their regulation are in agriculture, and in particular, grain. From  its outset, derivatives  regulation  struggled  to  draw  a  boundary  between gambling  and  justifiable  speculation  in  the  context  of  financial transactions.

## A.  The Birth of Futures Trading in the United States

The Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) was established in 1848. Initially, it served as a wholesale market for grain.  CBOT's charter permitted it to set rules for membership, and these rules permitted members  to  trade  on  their  own  behalf  as  well  as  on  behalf  of customers while mandating certain practices meant to facilitate trading.    Within  a  few  decades,  CBOT  developed  sophisticated trading and risk management processes based on self-regulation under its Illinois charter.  Among other things, CBOT introduced standardized  contracts  that  required  the  delivery  of  grain  of  a certain grade at a certain location one or more months in the future at the price prevailing in the market at the time of execution.  In this  manner,  CBOT  transitioned  from  being  a  'cash'  or  'spot' market where execution and settlement were largely contemporaneous  to  being  a  derivatives  market  where  traders could take positions based on future prices of grain and transfer the risk of price fluctuation. (The CBOT's federal regulation preceded the regulation of the first stock exchange, as discussed in more detail below.)

These  standardized  contracts  came  to  be  called  'futures',  as distinct from the tailored bilateral agreements for future delivery of an asset referred to as 'forwards'.  Forwards preexisted futures and continue to be used across various assets.  And forwards differ from  futures  not  only  in  their  bespoke  terms,  but  also  in  their idiosyncratic credit quality.

In  1883,  CBOT  developed  a  'clearing'  mechanism (History of the CFTC, CFTC https://www.cftc.gov/About/HistoryoftheCFTC/history_precftc.html (last visited July  23,2024)  ('1883  -  The  first  clearing  organization  is  established  to  clear CBOT contracts, initially on a voluntary basis.').  Some, however, dispute the chronology offered by the CFTC and trace the advent of clearing to 1925.  Neal L.  Wolkoff  &amp;  Jason  B.  Werner, The History  of  Regulation  of  Clearing  in  the Securities  and  Futures  Markets,  and  Its  Impact  on  Competition ,  30  REV. BANKING &amp; FIN. L. 313, 345 (2010) ('Phillip McBride Johnson, a former CFTC Chairman, believes that, around 1925, the CBOT's clearinghouse, the Board of Trade Clearing Corporation ('BOTCC'), became the first 'true mechanism for addressing counterparty credit risk through a centralized guarantee system.'').) ,  which other futures exchanges came to emulate.  Pursuant to clearing, exchange members entering into a future transaction effectively split the transaction into two - one between the first member and a clearinghouse and a second between the clearinghouse and the second member.  The clearinghouse is typically an affiliate of the exchange. The clearinghouse acts as guarantor of both transactions, standing in between the parties and standardizing credit  risk  similarly  to  how  the  delivery  terms  of  the  future standardize  market  risk  (i.e.,  risk  related  to  the  price  of  the referenced asset). (Before introducing a clearinghouse to manage and standardize credit risk across  its  futures,  CBOT  employed  techniques  that  came  to  be  known  as compression in settling members' obligations.  Through 'ring' or 'multilateral' compression, members would identify rings of redundant obligations and cancel them, such as where member A owed delivery of corn under 50 contracts to member B, member B owed delivery of corn under 50 contracts to C, and member C owed delivery of corn under 50 contracts to member A; assuming that the deliveries were to be made at the same place and at the same time and the grade was  the  same  across  contracts,  cancelling  these  three  sets  of  50  contracts simplified settlement without affecting economic outcomes.  Ilya Beylin, ESGlinked Swaps and the Next Chapter of Regulatory Innovation , 42 REV. BANK. FIN. L. 755, 809-816 (2023) (explaining compression in the context of swaps).  Prior to the advent of clearing, these kinds of offset exercises simplified tracking and processing delivery obligations.    These  exercises  enabled  netting  similarly  to how  centralized  clearing  enables  netting  today.    To  reduce  credit  quality idiosyncrasies - as yet another step towards the clearing regime that evolved in the 1900s - CBOT required third-party guarantees from clearing members of the members' obligations under futures. See also Stephen J. Lubben, Always Crashing in the Same Car-Clearinghouse Rescue in the United States under Dodd-Frank , 3 J. FIN. REG. 133, 137-38 (2017) (explaining clearing).)   The standardization of futures contracts is an important function of market intermediaries, and explains unique dynamics within these multi-trillion dollar markets. (The Bank of International Settlements reports the global value of futures as of December 31, 2023 as exceeding $37 trillion. https://data.bis.org/topics/XTD_DER/tables-and-dashboards/BIS,XTD_D1,1.0 (last visited July 23, 2024).)

Because futures contracts are standardized, a contract to buy a certain amount of grain at a certain location upon a certain date can be offset through entering into a contract to sell the same grain at the same location and on the same date.  This enables financial settlement of contracts through the purchase of inverse contracts, notwithstanding that on its face, a contract may require settlement through physical delivery. (For example, a future to buy 1,000 bushels of hard red winter wheat on a particular  date  at  a  particular  grain  depot  could  be  fully  satisfied  through entering into a future to sell the same amount of such wheat at the same time and  location.    As  a  result,  instead  of  satisfaction  through  physical  delivery, futures contracts can be financially settled and typically are.)

Three  common properties  help  explain  how  futures  function. First,  the  'value'  of  a  position  established  through  a  futures contract changes over the lifetime of the contract.  For example, a future to buy (or sell) 1,000 bushels of hard red winter wheat on a particular date at a particular grain depot will change price as the expected price of the wheat at delivery changes.  If, for example, the expected price goes up by one dollar per bushel, the contract price should increase by $1,000.  This represents a $1,000 gain to prior purchasers of grain delivery under the contract and a $1,000 loss to prior sellers.  Pursuant to margin requirements, the seller in the preceding example would have to post $1,000 in additional collateral upon the change in expected price; this collateral (also called variation margin) helps assure performance and acts as a quasi-real time settlement mechanism against expectations. (Ilya  Beylin, ESG-Linked  Swaps  and  the  Next  Chapter  of  Regulatory Innovation ,  42  REV.  BANK  &amp;  FIN.  L.  755,  816-23  (2023)  (overviewing  margin requirements for swaps); Christian Chamorro-Courtland, The Legal Aspects of Portfolio Margining: A Move Toward the LSOC Model , 10 J. BUS. ENTREPRENEURSHIP &amp; L. 25, 31-34 (2016) (illustrating margining).)   By design, as the settlement date approaches, the price of the futures contract should converge to the cash market price of wheat.

A  second,  related,  quality  is  the  relationship  between futures prices and cash market prices in a 'competitive' market. To  illustrate,  assume  that  the  market  price  of  an  obligation  to deliver 1,000 bushels of hard red winter wheat on December 31 at a particular depot is $6,000.  In other words, a futures contract to sell  that  wheat  provides  $6,000  to  the  seller.    If  the  costs  of obtaining  the  wheat,  storing  it  until  December  31,  and  then making  delivery  at  the  specified  location  is  substantially  below $6,000,  it  is  sensible  to  procure,  store  and  then  transport  that wheat while entering into futures contracts to sell that wheat.  The various  costs  of  obtaining  an  asset  and  making  delivery  in  a manner that would satisfy the terms of the futures contract provide a ceiling on the price of a futures contract, and a linkage between cash and futures markets. (The  potential  excess  of  futures  prices  over  cash  market  prices  reflects these costs of procurement (e.g., financing costs), storage (e.g., rent, insurance), and delivery (e.g., transportation) and are referred to as contango.)

Third, futures contracts generally imply 'basis risk' for their commercial users.  For example, if a grain exporter is obligated to deliver 1,000 bushels of hard red winter wheat in six months at then prevailing market prices, the exporter faces a risk.  First, she does not have the grain and needs to procure it.  Second, if the price of  grain  declines  after  procurement  and  before  the  export,  the decrease  will  be  a  loss  to  the  exporter.    To  address  these circumstances, the exporter may enter into two transactions.  First, the  exporter  enters  into  a  forward  purchase  agreement  for  the 1,000 bushels of wheat at a fixed price six months ahead of the export  obligation.    Second,  the  exporter  hedges  against  price declines through selling futures contracts on 1,000 bushels to be settled in six months' time.  Pursuant to the combination of the forward and future position: (1) if prices for wheat increase, the exporter will gain based on the differential between the price of the exported grain and the price at which that grain was procured, while losing money on the futures contract; and (2) if prices for wheat  decline,  the  exporter  will  lose  based  on  the  differential between the price at which the grain was procured and the lower price at which it will be exported, while profiting on the futures position.  Notably, (1) and (2) only note that the performance of the futures  position  dampens  the  gain  (or  loss)  on  the  commercial transactions (i.e., the combination of procurement and export).  The claim  is  not  that  the  futures  position  eliminates  the  risk  from commercial  operations.    That  is  because  of  'basis  risk',  which refers to risk that prices of the commodity underlying the futures transaction  develop  differently  from  prices  of  the  commodity underlying the commercial transactions.

There are many potential sources of basis risk: for example, the wheat deliverable under the futures may be of a different quality than the wheat the exporter must ship; or the location of delivery under  the  futures  contract  is  significantly  different  from  the location where the exporter must deliver the wheat to its customer and  this  difference  entails  greater  transportation  costs;  or  the delivery deadline for the future and the forward differ.  These types of  slippage  in  pricing  between  the  commodity  in  its  commercial settings and the commodity as it satisfies futures contract delivery requirements mean that hedging through futures addresses risk to a degree, and that degree can vary.  In this respect, asking whether a  product  serves  a  hedging  purpose  is  somewhat  like  asking whether a relationship is romantic.  Some relationships are clearly romantic, others clearly are not, and then there are some that are more romantic than others and some that are barely romantic or not romantic enough.  This difficult assessment is revisited in Part III, which recommends delisting products with inadequate hedging utility.

## B.  Telegraphs Forced a Difficult Distinction Between Futures Trading and Gambling

The derivatives business changed profoundly after the introduction  of  telegraphs.    The  commercial  opportunities  this technology unleashed threatened the exchanges and prompted the initial contact between derivatives markets and federal lawmaking.    Telegraphs  enabled  bucket-shops  to  compete  with exchanges,  undercutting  exchange  liquidity  and  undermining confidence in financial markets.

Before  the  days  of  computing,  exchanges  functioned  through individuals  communicating  orders  to  buy  and  sell  in  designated locations. (Exchanges varied in whether they required members to trade exclusively on premises.  Allowing off-premises trading undercut liquidity at the exchange, but allowed member firms to compete with the 'curb' markets outside of the exchange.  Jerry W. Markham &amp; Daniel J. Harty, For Whom the Bell Tolls: The Demise of Exchange Trading Floors and the Growth of ECNs , 33 J. CORP. L. 865, 872 (2008) [hereinafter Markham &amp; Harty, For Whom the Bell Tolls ].  This was particularly relevant for trading outside exchange hours. Id.)  These humans were members of the relevant exchange or  traders  working  for  members  organized  as  entities.  Traders were not necessarily submitting orders for the member, but instead could submit orders for customers.  With the advent of telegraphs, brokers could quickly serve customers in distant locations.  But telegraphs also allowed the prices established on an exchange to be broadly, swiftly disseminated over ticker tape.  Major exchanges exhibited prices, which were updated as orders came in and were matched.  This price information was disseminated from exchanges to  distant  exchange-member  offices,  from  where  it  could  (and sometimes was) disseminated further  including  to  unauthorized third parties. (Exchanges were poorly positioned to identify where their data was shared beyond authorized purposes, but used informants, traced telegraph cables, and engaged  in  other  expensive  investigation  to  launch  legal  actions  against members that sold price data to third parties. See David Hochfelder, "Where the Common People Could Speculate": The Ticker, Bucket Shops, and the Origins of Popular Participation in Financial Markets, 1880-1920 , 93 J. AMER. HIST. 335, 353-55 (Sept. 2006) [hereinafter Hochfelder, Where the Common People Could Speculate ].)

Bucket shops paid brokers and others near enough exchange floors  for  price  data.    They  would  then  display  current  price information to their customers.  When a customer placed an order with a bucket shop, the order would represent a contract with the bucket shop.  It was not routed to the exchange.  Instead, a zero sum was created between the customer and the bucket shop, which took the other side of the position.  Bucket shops tended to charge lower  prices  than  brokers,  so  their  services  were  a  competitive substitute  for  placing  an  order  through  a  broker.    But  the relationship between shop and customer, as well as the character of many bucket shop owners, led to predatory dynamics.  When a customer failed to meet margin requirements over the lifetime of a trade, the customer would lose her position (including all transaction  fees).    Bucket  shops  manipulated  price  information. For example, bucket shops placed sell orders on exchanges to settle at  lower  prices  with  customers.    The  same  practice  of  placing strategic  exchange  orders  to  manipulate  the  bucket  shop's  own pricing stream was used to create margin calls towards triggering customer defaults.  Perhaps more importantly, a number of bucket shops were fly-by-night operations that took customer fees for a while and then - when the market turned against the bucket shop - absconded. (Charles  P.  Kindleberger,  MANIAS, PANICS, AND CRASHES  76-77  (4th  ed. 2000).)

Brokers working with exchange members, in contrast, were not subject to the same default risk, as they did not assume proprietary positions.    Many  customers  probably  did  not  appreciate  the difference between submitting orders to a brokerage to establish a position through an organized exchange and submitting the same order to a bucket shop. (Hochfelder, Where the Common People Could Speculate at 343.)   All they saw was that the bucket shop charged lower fees,  while  wearing  the  dress  of  a  brokerage  and nominally putting the customer in the same position.

The difference between orders placed with a broker and orders placed with a bucket shop, however, was critical.  Brokered orders led to transactions matched through the facilities of an exchange. That  transaction  would  be  with  a  third  party  and  subject  to bilateral margining, which decreased the risk of default.  Brokered orders  also  necessarily  added  to  the  liquidity  of  an  exchange. Understandably, exchanges such as the Chicago Board of Trade and  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange  campaigned  against  bucket shops and sought to prevent the flow of price data to them. (As an example of using non-legal means to protect intellectual property rights to price data, in August 1887, the president of the CBOT used force to remove telegraphic equipment from CBOT's premises. Hochfelder, Where the Common People Could Speculate at 336.  Later, in 1900, the major exchanges threatened to begin their own telegraph service if existing telegraph companies did not cooperate in protecting the exchanges' price quotations. Id. at 354.)   The exchanges were concerned about the free riding, the reputational damage  to  their  ecosystem,  the  loss  of  fees  and  the  loss  of liquidity. (Paul G. Mahoney, The Exchange As Regulator , 83 VA L. REV. 1453, 147982 (1997) (discussing collective action problems exchange rules are designed to address).)   Initially, the exchanges brought cases in state courts. However, for decades, the exchanges consistently lost. (In addition to issues related to illegal gambling, some state courts opposed exchange efforts to protect data as monopolistic practices designed to prevent competition  through  denying  bucket  shops  (and  intermediary  brokers)  the unfettered use of data collected at the exchange.)     Courts saw both the exchanges and the bucket shops as engaged in illegal gambling, and would not protect data related to this illicit activity.

The crux of the gambling argument derived from a principle under state law, which looked to whether parties entered into the contract  with  intent  to  deliver. (These illegal transactions were referred to as contracts for 'difference', with  the  difference  being  the  speculative  difference  between  the  price  of  the referenced  asset  at  execution  and  its  price  for  settlement.    Telford  Taylor, Trading in Commodity Futures--A New Standard of Legality , 43 YALE L.J. 63, 71-78 (1933) (discussing courts' inquiry into delivery intent in the context of futures trading).)     Under  this  principle,  if  a transaction in property was entered into with intent to transfer the property,  it  was  not  gambling.    In  contrast,  if  the  contract  was entered into with intent to settle it financially based on how the value  of  the  property  changed  in  the  future,  the  parties  were engaged in illegal gambling. (Jerry  W.  Markham, Confederate  Bonds,  General  Custer, and  the Regulation  of  Derivative  Financial  Instruments ,  25  SETON  HALL L. REV.  1,  9 (1994)  [hereinafter  Markham, General  Custer ]  (describing  illegal  difference trading).)   The doctrine included an important exception  that  accounted  for  changes  in  circumstances.    In  the former case, by the time of settlement, the intentions of the parties may have evolved so that instead of completing physical delivery, the parties resolve their obligations through a financial settlement. (The  same  result  would obtain if  breach  was met with suit followed by monetary damages)   Anti-gambling prohibitions permitted enforcement in such contexts, again, focusing on the intent of the parties at the time the contract was executed.

Anti-gambling statutes captured intuitions distinguishing speculation  from  commercial  arrangements  in  the  context  of ordinary, bilateral transactions. These intuitions did not coherently map onto the futures context where contracts both (a) required physical delivery, and (b) were overwhelmingly resolved through payment for offsetting transactions rather than physical delivery.    Focusing  on  the  economic  substance  as  distinct  from form, state courts repeatedly applied anti-gambling law to protect customers from futures-brokers' attempts at collection.  The same laws  were  used  by  bucket  shops  to  argue  that  because  futures predominantly  settled  financially  rather  than  through  physical delivery,  futures  exchanges  were  illegal  gambling  organizations ineligible for legal protections with respect to the subject of their operations.

Ultimately, the exchanges brought their case to the Supreme Court  in  a  case  that  pitted  CBOT  against  a  large  bucket-shop, Christie Grain & Stock Co. Board of Trade v. Christie Grain &amp; Stock Co. ,  198  U.  S.  236  (1905) distinguished between gambling and futures trading, holding the latter was permissible under state law and thus eligible for protection under contract law.  In writing for the majority, Justice Holmes asserted without any principled basis that financial settlement and settlement through offsetting transactions  were  distinct  and  the  latter  did  not  violate  Illinois state  anti-gambling  law. (Id. at 250 ('A set-off is in legal effect a delivery.').  Justice Holmes offered no  practical  distinction  between  settling  a  contract  through  a  payment  and settling a contract through a payment for an offsetting contract.  Instead, viewed charitably, his majority opinion sees the operations of the CBOT as inherent in the CBOT's charter; and that charter is a more specific expression of legislative intent as to its permitted operations than general Illinois anti-gambling law.)     This  was  a  formalist  argument  that focused  on  the  language  of  contracts  rather  than  the  course  of financial  performance.    Although  Justice  Holmes  was  unable  to find logic to support the outcome, his opinion expressed sophisticated  intuitions  for  distinguishing  futures  trading  from gambling. (The opinion assesses the operations of the CBOT through balancing its facilitation  of  'serious'  (and  hence  legitimate)  business  activity  against  its support of gambling: 'the proportion of the dealings in the pit which are settled [through offsetting transaction] throws no light on the question of the proportion of serious dealings for legitimate business purposes to those which fairly can be classed as wagers, or pretended contracts.' Id. at 250.)   Read charitably, his distinction rested on the context of contracting rather than the content or performance of specific contracts.    Holmes  made  three  observations  that  are  excerpted below  and  returned  to  subsequently,  which  are  fundamental  to justifying and defining the extent of regulated derivatives markets.

- (1) Utility  of  Hedging  to  Commercial  Market  Participants: 'There is no doubt that a large part of [futures contracts are] made for serious business purposes. Hedging, for instance, as it is called, is a means by which collectors and exporters of  grain  or  other  products,  and  manufacturers  who  make contracts  in  advance  for  the  sale  of  their  goods,  secure themselves against the fluctuations of the market by counter contracts for the purchase or sale, as the case may be, of an equal quantity of the product, or of the material of manufacture. It is none the less a serious business contract for  a  legitimate  and  useful  purpose  that  it  may  be  offset before  the  time  of  delivery  in  case  delivery  should  not  be needed or desired.' (Id. at 249.)
- (2) Use of Prices from Futures Markets in Commercial Dealings: '[T]he quotation of prices from the [futures] market are of the utmost importance to the business world, and not least, to the farmers; so important, indeed, that it is argued here and has been held in Illinois that the quotations are clothed with a public use.' (Id. at 249.)
- (3) Speculation  and  Price  Formation:  '[I]n  a  modern  market, contracts are not confined to sales for immediate delivery. People  will  endeavor  to  forecast  the  future,  and  to  make agreements according to their prophecy.  Speculation of this kind by competent men is the self-adjustment of society to the probable.  Its value is well known as a means of avoiding or mitigating catastrophes, equalizing prices and providing for periods of want.  It is true that the success of the strong induces  imitation  by  the  weak,  and  that  incompetent persons bring themselves to ruin by undertaking to speculate in their turn.' (Id. at 247.)

In distinguishing futures trading from gambling and the CBOT from a bucket shop, Board of Trade v. Christie Grain & Stock Co. enabled the contemporary ecosystem of standardized derivatives trading.      Bucket  shops  were  parasitic  in  this  ecosystem  and endangered  exchange  operation.    First,  bucket  shops  could  not operate  without  exchange  sourced  data,  but  the  reverse  was untrue.    Second,  if  bucket  shops  drew  sufficient  transactional volumes from exchanges, the latter would lose the liquidity that attracted traders and justified membership.  Without liquidity (i.e., orders to buy and sell futures), an exchange like the CBOT would lose its raison d'être and no longer be able to justify the costs of membership or support its operations.  As a result, if bucket shops could  divert  trading  from  exchanges,  they  endangered  both  the exchanges and the price information they used to attract customers and operate their own business.  Furthermore, confusion among customers between legitimate brokers and bucket-shops combined with malfeasance on the part of the latter contributed to deterioration in overall trust. In a classic tragedy-of-the-

commons (Garrett Hardin, The Tragedy of the Commons , 162 SCIENCE 1243-8 (1968) (discussing scenarios where an exhaustible resource such as a pasture is overused due to coordination difficulties among potential users).) , however, individual bucket-shops had no incentive to limit how much they undermined the exchanges through diverting order  flow  or,  more  generally,  subverting  trust.    The  Supreme Court and then Congress came to protect futures exchanges from parasitic competition from bucket shops.

## C.  Federal Regulation of Derivatives

The  Grain Futures Act of 1922 (GFA)  initiated federal derivatives regulation. (Grain  Futures  Act,  Pub.  L.  No.  67-331,  42  Stat.  998  (1922).    Congress enacted legislation after President Woodrow Wilson commissioned the Federal Trade Commission to engage in a study of grain markets.  President Wilson's charge responded to broad concerns with speculation in grain markets during World War I.  Prior to the Grain Futures Act, Congress passed two other acts regulating futures exchanges, the Futures Trading Act of 1921 and the Cotton Futures  Act  of  1916.    The  Supreme  Court  declared  both  of  these  prior  Acts unconstitutional as exceeding Congressional taxation authorities. See Hill v. Wallace ,  259 U.S. 44, 68 (1922) (invaliding Futures Trading Act). In contrast, the Grain Futures Act was based on authority over interstate commerce and survived  judicial  review.    Prior  to  these  Acts,  there  were  many  legislative gestures towards regulating futures and options markets.  Between 1880 and 1920, over two hundred bills were introduced in Congress to regulate derivatives markets in response to complaints against bucket shops and manipulation on exchanges.  Markham, General Custer at n. 49.)   The GFA established the paradigm for federal regulation of derivatives markets, which continues through the  present  day.    That  paradigm  focuses  on  regulating  market intermediaries,  rather  than  the  end-users  of  financial  products. Under the GFA, contract markets (i.e., exchanges) applied to the Department  of  Agriculture  for  designation.    Unless  a  contract market was designated, the GFA made it illegal to trade futures on the  contract  market. (GFA at Section 4.)     To  qualify  for  designation,  a  contract market had to meet various criteria related to the quality of its grain delivery facilities, the volume of deliveries, and its regulation of  members. (GFA at Section 5.)     An  exchange  had  to  prohibit  its  members  from making or disseminating misleading reports about grain as well as engaging  in  corners  and  other  manipulation.    Additionally,  an exchange  had  to  require  its  members  to  follow  reporting  and recordkeeping  requirements  that  the  Secretary  of  Agriculture developed. (GFA at Section 5(b).  These requirements are the basis of large trader reporting that takes place to this day. https://www.cftc.gov/MarketReports/CommitmentsofTraders/index.htm)   Although the GFA primarily assigned administration of the Act to the Department of Agriculture, it also reserved roles for the Attorney General and Secretary of Commerce who together with the Secretary of Agriculture composed 'the commission'.  The commission  reviewed  suspensions  and  revocations  of  contract market  designation  as  well  as  rejections  of  contract  markets' applications for designation.  As a leading scholar of derivatives regulation, Jerry Markham, explains:

'The GFA limited futures trading to 'contract markets' licensed by  the  federal  government,  thereby  establishing  the  exchange trading  floor's  exclusivity  over  trading  in  futures  contracts  for decades to come.  Like most congressional actions, the limitation of  trading  to  [designated]  'contract  markets'  was  a  balance  of interests,  promoting  the  dissemination  of  price  information, expanding the regulation and monitoring of the marketplace, and eliminating bucket shops.' (Markham &amp; Harty, For Whom the Bell Tolls at  875  (internal  citations omitted).)

The  GFA  regulated  futures  trading  on  'wheat,  corn,  oats, barley, rye, flax, and sorghum.'  Futures on commodities that were not referenced in the statute-such as silver-remained outside of federal regulation until the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Act of 1974, which is discussed below.  In the interim, Congress occasionally expanded the scope of commodities triggering federal regulation. (See also H.R. Rep. No. 975, 93d Cong., 2d Sess. 35 (1974) ('By amendment of April 7, 1938, wool tops were added to the commodities subject to the [CEA], and fats and oils, cottonseed, cottonseed meal, peanuts, soybeans, and soybean meal were added October 9, 1940.  Wool (as distinguished from wool tops) was added on August 28, 1954, and the act was made applicable to onions on July 26,  1955.    Public  Law  85-839,  approved  August  28,  1958,  prohibited  futures trading in onions, effective September 27, 1958, but did not remove onions from the list of commodities covered by the Commodity Exchange Act.  Effective June 18, 1968, the act was amended to include livestock and livestock products . . . . Public  Law  90-418,  approved  July  23,  1968,  extended  coverage  of  the  act  to frozen concentrated orange juice.').)

Following  the  initial  raft  of  New  Deal  legislation,  the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA) was enacted in 1936. (Commodity Exchange Act, Pub. L. No. 74-675, 49 Stat. 1491 (1936).)     The CEA substantially  expanded  the  regulation  of  derivatives  markets, including  through  (a)  requiring  the  registration  of  exchange members and floor brokers, (b) imposing a variety of requirements intended to protect customers directly on exchange members (e.g., prohibitions on members defrauding their customers and requirements that  members  segregate customer funds from proprietary assets). (See id. at Section 4b (prohibiting members of contract markets and their agents from cheating, defrauding, making  false reports, deceiving, and bucketing orders); Section 4d(2) (requiring the segregation of customer property) (1936).)     The  CEA  also  addressed  widespread concerns  about  speculation  and  manipulation  causing  artificial prices through delegating to the 'Commodity Exchange Commission' (The  Commodity  Exchange  Commission  consisted  of  the  same  three individuals as the GFA referred to as the commission. Id. at Section 3(b).)  the power to set position limits. (Id. at Section 4a (1936).)   Position limits restrict  the  size  of  positions  traders  can  take  through  futures transactions, with an important exception for bona fide hedging transactions. (See Andrew Verstein, Privatizing Personalized Law ,  86  U. CHI. L. REV. 551, 554-555 (2019) (discussing position limits and the exemption for bona fide hedging).)   This was the first, and not a significant, obligation to  apply  to  end-users  in  derivatives  markets  as  distinct  from intermediaries.

The CEA remains the source of federal derivatives regulation, and followed the birth of federal securities regulation under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Whereas the latter created the Securities Exchange Commission as  a  standalone  agency  to  regulate  securities  markets,  the  CEA continued to rely primarily on the Department of Agriculture to regulate derivatives markets. (The role of the Department of Agriculture traces to the combination of the agricultural  origins  of  derivatives  markets  and  the  role  of  the  agricultural committees in the House and Senate in developing the legislation.)   It was only the CFTC Act of 1974 that  created  an  independent  agency  modeled  on  the  SEC  to regulate derivatives markets. (Although both SEC and CFTC regulations primarily target intermediaries as distinct from end-users, the former affects end-users more through imposing requirements  on  offerings  and  public  companies  (as  well  as  certain  related parties) under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.)

The  birth  of  the  CFTC  coincided  with  the  expansion  and firming  of  derivatives  regulation.    It  was  the  CFTC  Act  that expanded the scope of regulated derivatives beyond agricultural products to all products listed on designated contract markets. (Gary E. Kalbaugh, Why Regulate Commodities? , 57 SUFFOLK L. REV. 43, 45-49  (2024) (discussing definition of commodity as it changed in 1974, and the related ambiguities).) This was done through a terse, complex and powerful revision to the term 'commodity'.  That term defines the ambit of the CEA. The CFTC Act expanded the term to include 'all services, rights, and interests in which [futures] are presently or in the future dealt in.' (CFTC Act Section 201(b) (emphasis added).)     As  a  result  of  this  amendment,  any  subject  of  a  futures contract  became  a  commodity,  allowing  CFTC  jurisdiction  to expand as derivatives exchanges developed new contracts. (For example, when futures were launched on Bitcoin (an asset absent from Congressional imagination in 1974) this language transformed Bitcoin into a commodity. See Yuliya  Guseva  &  Irena  Hutton, Regulatory  Fragmentation: Investor Reaction to SEC and CFTC Enforcement in Crypto Markets , 64 BOSTON COL. L. REV.  1555, at n. 116 and surrounding text (2023) (discussing CFTC jurisdiction over cash markets in Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies following the development of derivatives on these assets).)  This elegant but not unproblematic drafting put markets in the driver's seat,  while  giving  the  CFTC  veto  powers  through  the  contract authorization  process.    This  expansion  was  especially  powerful because the CFTC Act also gave the CFTC exclusive jurisdiction over exchange traded contracts. (CFTC Act Section 201(b) (granting the CFTC 'exclusive jurisdiction with respect  to  accounts,  agreements  (including  any  transaction  which  is  of  the character  of,  or  is  commonly  known  to  the  trade  as,  an  'option',  'privilege', 'indemnity', 'bid', 'offer', 'put', 'call', 'advance guaranty', or 'decline guaranty'), and transactions involving contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery, traded or executed on a contract market designated pursuant to section 5 of this Act or any other board of trade, exchange, or market, and transactions subject to  regulation  by  the  Commission  pursuant  to  section  217  of  the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission Act of 1974'). See Stephen J. Lubben, Failure of the Clearinghouse: Dodd-Frank's Fatal Flaw ,  10 VA. L. &amp; BUS. REV. 127, n.71 (2015) (discussing exclusive jurisdiction of the CFTC).)   As a result, product approval both expanded CFTC jurisdiction and displaced state regulation. (Abelardo  Lopez  Valdez, Modernizing  the  Regulation  of  the  Commodity Futures Markets ,  13  HARV. J. ON LEGIS. 35, 49-51 (1975) (discussing scope of preemption under the CEA following the CFTC Act). See M. Van Smith, The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Return of the Bucketeers: A Lesson  in  Regulatory  Failure ,  57  N.D.  L.  REV.  7,  14-16  (1981)  (discussing concurrent state and federal jurisdiction prior to the CFTC Act).) As  discussed  below,  this  would  become  important  as  exchange proposals for products strayed further from the roots of the CEA and  implicated  the  gambling  concerns  traditionally  addressed through state law. (Initially,  the  assignment  of  exclusive  jurisdiction  over  exchange  listed products  to  the  CFTC  arguably  raised  greater  concerns  for  other  federal regulators as opposed to states.  During legislative deliberation over the CFTC Act,  the  banking  regulators  raised  concerns  with  currency  futures  and  other products.  Thomas A. Tormey, A Derivatives Dilemma: The Treasury Amendment Controversy  and  the  Regulatory  Status  of  Foreign  Currency  Options ,  65 FORDHAM L. REV. 2313, 2328-30 (1997).  In response, Congress included the so called 'Treasury amendment' in the CFTC Act, which carved out off-exchange 'transactions in foreign currency, security warrants, security rights, resales of installment  loan  contracts,  repurchase  options,  government  securities,  or mortgages  and  mortgage  purchase  commitments.'    CFTC  Act  Section  201(b) codified at 7 U.S.C. Section 2(ii). In subsequent years, jurisdictional tensions between  federal  regulators  continued  to  arise  as  exchanges  continued  to innovate products with similar uses to those traditionally marketed by banks, and hence subject to banking regulation, as well as those under SEC jurisdiction. See Part II, infra .)

Part  II  below  traces  the  evolution  of  products  traded  on CFTC-regulated exchanges. Given the evolution of products and the  consequences  of  a  product  being  listed  on  a  derivatives exchange-for expansion of CFTC jurisdiction and preemption of other regulation-a natural question is whether there are statutory bounds on the products the CEA governs?  Section 3 of the  CEA  addresses  this  question.    Section 3  predates  the  CEA, being  present  in  the  original  Grain  Futures  Act.  That  section specifies  that  futures  contracts,  as  Holmes  had  observed  almost twenty years earlier, were used both for hedging and for setting prices in grain cash markets.  According to the GFA, these two uses imbued futures with a public interest. (GFA's  Section  3  went  on  to  state  that  'sudden  or  unreasonable fluctuations in the prices [of grain and futures on grain] frequently occur as a result of . . . speculation, manipulation, or control, which are detrimental to the producer or the  consumer and the persons handling grain and products and byproducts thereof in interstate commerce.')   The Commodity Exchange Act retained this language.  In fact, this language did not change until 1983 when Congress enacted the Futures Trading Act (FTA) of 1982. (Futures Trading Act of 1982, Pub. L. No. 97-444, 99 Stat. 2294 (1983).The FTA of 1982, despite its name, was not enacted until January of 1983. Id.)   The FTA's revisions to Section 3 caught up with the 1974 expansion  of  CEA  authority  beyond  agricultural  commodities through replacing references to 'grain' in the description of the Act's  purpose  with  references  to  'commodities.' (Futures Trading Act of 1982, Pub. L. No. 97-444, §203, 99 Stat. 2294, 22982299 (1983).In addition to correcting this oversight under the 1974 Act, the FTA revised  the  purpose  of  the  CEA  to  reflect  growing  acceptance  of  speculation. Under  the  original  Grain  Futures  Act  and  for  the  next  six  decades,  federal commodity law saw 'speculation' in grain futures markets as on the same level as 'manipulation' and 'control.' See supra n. 61.  The FTA revised Section 3 to link  harms only to 'excessive speculation' rather than speculation generally. FTA Section 203.  The FTA also included references to options rather than just futures. Id.)  Then,  almost eight  decades  after  Section  3  was  adopted,  it  was  substantially shortened  under  the  Commodity  Futures  Modernization  Act (CFMA) of 2000 to read as follows:

'(a)  FINDINGS.-The  transactions  subject  to  this  Act  are entered into regularly in interstate and international commerce and are affected with a national public interest by providing a means for managing and assuming price risks, discovering prices, or  disseminating pricing information through trading in liquid, fair and financially secure trading facilities.'

These changes replaced longer and more concrete explanations of the public interest implicated in derivatives transactions with an abstract summary.    Nevertheless,  the  purpose  of  the  CEA continues to be linked to the utility of derivatives for hedging (i.e., 'managing  and  assuming  price  risks') and  discovering  and disseminating  pricing  in  cash  markets  as  Justice  Holmes  had intuited  almost  a  century  earlier.    Part  III  below  will  return  to Section 3 in discussing whether CFTC-regulated exchanges have authority  to  list  various  products  that  lack  hedging  and  price setting  functions.    But  before  engaging  in  this  analysis,  Part  II follows the evolution of derivatives products to where they have ceased to appreciably serve either of these twin purposes.

## II. THE EVOLUTION OF FUTURES CONTRACTS

Prior to the CFTC Act of 1974, federal derivatives regulation governed  exclusively  agricultural  derivatives.    With  the  CFTC's founding,  the  range  of  federally  governed  derivatives  vastly expanded, coming to encompass futures on metals and a variety of other  exchange-traded  products.    This  era  is  referred  to  as  the financialization of derivatives, as the variables driving cash flows under derivatives instruments came to include intangibles such as currencies  and  interest  rates.    The  CFTC  provides  a  database listing products it has authorized since its inception. (Industry Filings: Designated Contract Market Products, CFTC, https://www.cftc.gov/IndustryOversight/IndustryFilings/TradingOrganizationP roducts (last visited July 26, 2024).)   Through reviewing this database-including the contracts that were already being traded on designated exchanges as of the time of the CFTC's formation- this Part II chronicles the gradual unmooring of  regulated  derivatives  from  the  hedging  and  price  discovery justifications of the CEA. (For many of the authorized futures, the CFTC's database does not provide details on product specifications.  In these cases, where the product was relevant to the evolution of futures leading to event contracts, contemporary media were reviewed to understand product specifications.  Many of the citations in this Part 'Futures Trading)

II reference these contemporary sources. See also https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/anr/anrcontractsdesig98.htm and Option Contracts Designated by the Commodity Futures Commission as of September 30, 1998'.

## A.  The Development of Currency and Interest Rate Futures and the Dawn of Financial Futures

The first futures contract designed to manage risk related to an intangible asset was the foreign currency future.  The New York Produce Exchange (NYPE) was founded in 1862 and had been a successful commodity exchange in the late 1800s and early 1900s. By  the  middle  of  the  1900s,  however,  the  NYPE  encountered scandal  and  began  to  struggle. (H.J.  Maidenberg, Produce Exchange: A Grand Lady With Few Suitors: Dressed Up Produce Exchange Now Ponders Where , NY TIMES, March 21, 1965, at F1.)   The  exchange  then  pivoted, seeking to reinvent itself.  It developed a stunning proposal to list first futures on currencies and then futures on stock. (Philip Greer, Currency Futures Market Described: Nation's First ,  WASH POST, TIMES HERALD, Dec. 26, 1969, at D6.)  In April 1970, the NYPE launched the International Commercial Exchange, which began trading in currency futures. (Trading Mart Hopes Speculators Have Yen For Foreign Currency , WALL ST. J., Oct. 14, 1969, at 29.)   By 1973 the NYPE closed, and its International Commercial Exchange futures market  would  come  to  fail. (Produce Exchange Dissolved Into Realty Business Trust , WALL ST. J., May 29,  1973,  at  31.  The  International  Commercial  Exchange  suffered  from circumstance and design choices.  It launched before Nixon's fateful withdrawal from  the  gold  standard.    And  its  futures  targeted  relatively  small  market participants,  which  some  viewed  as  an  invitation  to  speculation  by  retail investors. Leo Melamed, The Birth of FX Futures at 2. See Trading Mart Hopes Speculators Have Yen For Foreign Currency ,  WALL ST. J., Oct. 14, 1969 at 29 (explaining that the currency futures would require downpayments, i.e., initial margin, of $4,500, which was not an insignificant sum in 1970).)     Instead,  it  was  the  Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) that would come to develop the first deep markets in currency futures.

In December 1971, the CME  created an affiliate-the International Monetary Market (IMM)-to list financial futures. On  May  16,  1972,  the  IMM  launched  seven  currency  futures contracts. (These were contracts based on the price in dollars of (i.e., the exchange rates  to)  the  following  currencies:  (1)  British  pounds  sterling,  (2)  Canadian dollars,  (3)  Deutsche  marks,  (4)  Japanese  yen,  (5),  Mexican  pesos  (6)  Swiss franks, and (7) French francs. https://www.cftc.gov/IndustryOversight/IndustryFilings/TradingOrganizationP roducts  (listing  futures  contracts  that  the  CFTC  has  authorized  since  its founding, including contracts that were authorized ex post after the CFTC was established).    Soon  after  these  seven  futures  were  launched,  the  New  York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX), launched nine futures on (1) British pounds sterling, (2) Canadian dollars, (3) Deutsche marks, (4) Japanese yen, (5) Mexican pesos, (6) Swiss francs, (7) Italian lira, (8) Dutch guilders, and (9) Belgian francs. The  IMM responded by listing  contracts  on  Dutch  guilders,  but  left  Belgian francs to NYMEX.  In 1980, IMM would list Italian lira and the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) began to compete as a third U.S. venue with currency futures products, offering (1) British pounds sterling, (2) Japanese yen, and (3) Swiss franc contracts. This history demonstrates substantial but incomplete competition among derivatives exchanges.  Among other things, the minimum volumes required for futures trading to be attractive limit the number of venues that offer a product (in the absence of linkage between venues).)     The  timing  was  important.    On  August  15,  1971, shortly before the birth of IMM and its introduction of a suite of currency futures, President Nixon abandoned the gold standard. (Christina  Parajon  Skinner, The Monetary Executive ,  91  GEO. WASH. L. REV. 164, 195-97 (2023) (discussing how the U.S. left the gold standard under President Richard Nixon).) This  initially  devalued  the  dollar  and  permanently  unmoored foreign exchange rates.  The result was that market participants with international operations faced less predictable cash flows. (Hilary Till, Case Studies on the Success or Failure of Futures Contracts , 4 J. GOV. REG. 30, 30-31 (2015) ('With the U.S. dollar no longer pegged to gold or anything of fixed value, the risk of large price changes entered the markets.').) Figure II.A illustrates the increased volatility through showing the cost of British Pounds Sterling in U.S. dollars over the relevant timeframe.

The IMM launched currency futures with an eye to serving a substantial  market.    At  the  time,  there  was  an  established interbank forward market for hedging currency exchange risk. (See Leo Melamed, Evolution of the International Monetary Market , 8 CATO J.  393,  401  (1988)  (discussing  how  IMM  linked  to  the  interbank  market  to harmonize pricing through having select clearing members arbitrage prices in the IMM market with prices in the interbank market).) However,  that  interbank  market  had  restrictions  on  eligible participants.  Most firms that recognized revenues in one currency but had expenses in another could not directly access the market, and  many  smaller  businesses  faced  high  costs  or  difficulties  in accessing the interbank market.  The CME served these clients, allowing them to buy contracts that locked-in the future price of foreign  currency.    While  the  exchange  that  invented  futures  to manage foreign exchange risk failed, the CME's suite of products succeeded and was soon emulated by other major exchanges. (See New York Merc Aims for Trading in Foreign Currency by Year-End , GLOBE  AND  MAIL,  Jul.  20,  1978,  at  B2    (discussing  New  York  Mercantile Exchange plans to list currency futures to compete with Chicago exchanges, with the NYME contracts differing in 'delivery points and some technicalities.'))

CBOT  and  CME-the  two  successful  Chicago-based  futures exchanges that trace their roots to the 1800s-would continue to compete and shape U.S. derivatives markets for decades until their merger in the early 2000s. (Roger  Lowenstein, Commodities  Trader  Pushes  a  New  Market  For Financial Futures ,  WALL ST. J., Dec. 29, 1980, at 1  (discussing dominance of CBOT and CME exchanges and difficulties the New York Futures Exchange was having in competing with the two, despite being an affiliate of the storied New York Stock Exchange).  The two major Chicago exchanges merged in two steps. In  2003,  they  merged  their  clearing  operations;  in  2007,  they  merged  their exchange operations. See Markham &amp; Harty, For Whom the Bell Tolls at 895. Their merger of clearing operations created substantial netting efficiencies for market participants.  Wolkoff &amp; Werner, The History of Regulation of Clearing in the Securities and Futures Markets, and Its Impact on Competition at  375 (discussing  $1.4  billion  reduction  in  exposure  when  the  two  clearinghouses merged).)   It was these two exchanges that took the next step in the evolution of risk transfer markets.  Along with significant  increases  in  currency  exchange  rate  volatility,  the 1970s saw sustained interest rate volatility. (Serge  Jeanneau, A Survey of Interest Rate Futures ,  BANK OF ENGLAND QUARTERLY BULLETIN 388-98, 388 (Aug. 1989) ("During the 1970s a combination of high inflation, growing stocks of private and public debt and changes in the framework of monetary policies contributed to high levels of nominal interest rates and considerable interest rate volatility."))   Figure II.B shows short term interest rates throughout the 1900s, reflecting growth of interest rate risk.

The first derivative enabling hedging of interest rate risk was the  futures  contract  on  U.S.  Government  National  Mortgage Association  (GNMA)  pass  through  certificates,  which  the  CBOT began  trading  on  October  1975. (The contract was approved on September 11, 1975.  The timeline between CFTC approval  and  commercial  launch  varies  significantly  across  contracts, with some taking less than a handful of days and other taking months or longer.)     The  GNMA  pass  through certificate represents an interest in a securitization of mortgages. (Robin  Paul  Malloy, The  Secondary  Mortgage  Market  -  A  Catalyst  for Change in Real Estate Transactions , 39 SW. L. J. 991, 1006 (1986).) Those mortgages produce cash as homeowners make principal and interest payments.  Those payments are guaranteed by the GNMA, which effectively has the backing of the U.S. government and thus is  not  subject  to  default  risk. (Because  the  obligation  is  denominated  in  U.S.  dollars  and  the  U.S. government  can  print  more  U.S.  dollars,  it  is  thought  that  U.S.  dollar denominated  obligations  (such  as  GNMA  certificates)  carry  no  default  risk, although their real value can decrease due to inflation in the event that the U.S. government prints more money to satisfy its debts.)     As  a  result  of  the  federal government's backing, the holder of a GNMA certificate is subject only to the risk that the value of cash flows the certificate produces changes in real terms.  This is synonymous with interest rate risk, i.e., changes in the cost of funds over time.

The insight  behind  the  first  interest  rate  future  exploits  the financial relationship between interest rates and the price of debt instruments  such  as  loans,  bonds  and  notes.    For  example,  as interest  rates  rise,  the  value  of  a  GNMA  certificate  declines because identical cash flows to those due on the certificate can be obtained through a smaller extension of principal. (The  secondary  market  for debt modulates  prices of issued debt instruments to reflect  the  opportunity  cost  of  investing  through  the  primary market as opposed to the secondary market.  This is the well known inverse relationship between yields (i.e., effective interest payments) and value, where the value of debt increases (decreases) as yields decline (increase).) As background,  GNMA  certificate  futures,  like  the  initial  currency futures, were physically settled.  Although their underlying asset was  financial  as  distinct  from  tangible,  these  futures  adopted settlement mechanics from agricultural and other tangible commodity  futures  markets  established  about  a  century  prior. When an IMM currency futures settled, dollars would be delivered in  exchange  for  the  contractually  defined  amount  of  foreign currency.  Similarly, when the GNMA future settled, dollars would be  delivered  in  exchange  for  the  contractually  specified  GNMA certificate representing $100,000 in principal on mortgages paying an effective annual interest rate of eight percent. (Stephen Figlewski, Futures Trading and Volatility in the GNMA Market , 36 J. FIN. 445, 447 (May 1981).)   By design, the difference  in  price  between  a  GNMA  certificate  at  the  time  of execution and its price at the time of settlement expressed interim changes  in  risk-free  interest  rates. (N. 81 supra .)     Each  basis  point  decrease (increase) in interest rates led to a constant increment (decrement) in the price of the deliverable certificate.  GNMA futures proved to be successful and the market expanded rapidly. (William L. Silber, Innovation, Competition and New Contract Design in Futures  Markets ,  1  J.  FUTURES  MKTS  123,  133-35  (1981)  (observing  that  the Amex Commodities Exchange, Inc. designed a futures on GNMA certificates that was more tailored to hedging but nevertheless lost to CBOT, which had greater resources and captured a substantial amount of liquidity for its GNMA futures).)   By July 1979, open contracts were outstanding for more than $7 billion face value of GNMAs. (Id.)

A variety of interest rate hedging futures arrived on the scene by  the  early  1980s,  although  experts  expected  relatively  few  to attract sufficient liquidity and survive. (See CFTC Allows Trading In Eurodollar Futures By 2 More Exchanges , WALL ST.  J.,  Dec.  16,  1981,  at  p.  44)  (discussing  expectations  that  only  one LIBOR-based  futures  contract  will  survive  after  three  exchanges  received approvals for competing products).)   CME and CBOT followed up on the GNMA contract through introducing futures linked to other  U.S.  risk-free  interest  rates  based  on  short,  medium,  and long-term  U.S.  government  debt. (About two months after the CFTC approved CBOT's GNMA futures, on November 26, 1975, the CFTC approved a competing product that the CME submitted.  This was a future settling on the 90-day T-bill (i.e. three-month debt issuances from the U.S. Treasury).  Over the next five years, CBOT, CME and COMEX would list a variety of interest rate futures settling on risk-free debt from  the  U.S.  government,  namely,  Treasury  bills  (i.e.,  risk-free  obligations having  an  original  maturity  of  a  year  or  less),  Treasury  notes  (i.e.,  risk-free obligations  having  an  original  maturity  between  two  and  ten  years),  and Treasury bonds (i.e., risk-free obligations having an original maturity over ten years).)   Exchanges  also  worked  on developing  products  that  tracked  private  market  interest  rates (i.e.,  interest  rates  charged  to  non-governmental  borrowers). (Bernard Shakin, Interest Rate Futures: They've Opened Up a Whole New Financial World , 58 BARRON'S NAT'L BUS FIN. WEEKLY, Nov. 13, 1978, at 4 (Nov 13, 1978) (explaining the development of interest rate futures as well as how they are used to hedge, e.g., by mortgage originators and holders of Treasuries).) These included two distinct CBOT futures on commercial paper that were approved in July 1977 and September 1978 and went on to fail (Allen  B.  Frankel, Interest  Rate  Futures:  An  Innovation  in  Financial Techniques for the Management of Risk , BIS ECONOMIC PAPERS NO. 12, 14 -18 (Sept. 1984)) , as well as futures on domestic bank certificates of deposit that were first proposed by the New York Futures Exchange and shortly thereafter by CBOT and CME. (See Richard  L.  Hudson  &amp;Robert  Prinsky, New  CFTC  Head  Calls  Big Board Unit Front-Runner for CD Futures Trading , WALL ST. J., Jun. 17, 1981, at 46 ('The CDs [underlying the futures contracts] represent amounts of at least $100,000 left with major banks for a specified time. . . . [These futures] would represent the first important futures contracts covering nongovernment debt instruments, and would provide banks and other financial institutions with an opportunity to hedge against changes in interest rates in the private sector.') The New York Futures Exchange, an affiliate of the New York Stock Exchange, attempted  to  launch  interest  rate  futures  but  failed.    Frankel, Interest  Rate Futures at 14. Meanwhile,  the  London  International  Financial  Futures Exchange was established in 1982 and by 1984 was trading a suite of U.S. dollar and sterling interest rate futures. Id. at 18.  Other countries' exchanges also started trading interest rate futures products. Id.)

Probably  the  most  important  evolution  within  interest  rate futures  following  the  GNMA  contract  was  the  design  of  the  so called  'Eurodollar'  futures  contract.    Eurodollar  futures  were approved for the CME and soon thereafter for CBOT and the New York  Futures  Exchange  in  early  to  mid-December  1981. (See CFTC Allows Trading In Eurodollar Futures By 2 More Exchanges , WALL  ST.  J.,  Dec.  29,  1980  at  p.  44  (discussing  Eurodollar  futures);  Roger Lowenstein, Commodities Trader Pushes a New Market For Financial Futures , WALL ST. J., Dec. 29, 1980, at 1) (discussing NYFE).)     The asset  referenced  in  these  futures  contracts  was  a  Eurodollar deposit collecting interest at the London Interbank Overnight Rate (LIBOR).    As  background,  these  deposits  became  popular  after deposits within the U.S. became subject to reserve requirements, expensive FDIC assessments and interest rate caps. (Jonathan  R.  Macey  &amp;  Geoffrey  P.  Miller, Nondeposit Deposits and the Future of Bank Regulation , 91 MICH. L. REV. 237, 238, 262-64 (1992)(explaining how bank deposits in London and elsewhere outside of the U.S. were exempt from U.S. requirements related to reserves and FDIC insurance assessments))   Eurodollar deposits  (e.g.,  a  deposit  of  dollars  at  a  U.S.  bank's  European location  by  a  multinational  corporate  client)  were  used  to  skirt these  restrictions  and  collect  higher  interest  rates  than  were available in the U.S.  Partly, these interest rates compensated for the  deposit  accounts  being  ineligible  for  support  from  FDIC insurance or the Federal Reserve. (The  interbank  rate  at  which  these  deposits  accrued  interest  was discontinued after the LIBOR rigging scandal.  Matthew Mosby, Hubert Raglan &amp; Joshua S. Tompkins, Clearing Up the Tax Considerations of the Cleared Swap Discounting Transitions ,  17  J. TAX'N FIN. PRODUCTS 29, 29 (2020) (discussing discontinuation of LIBOR).  However, for approximately three decades, LIBOR was a key metric of non-risk-free interest rates and Eurodollar futures were extraordinarily  popular.    Frankel, Interest  Rate  Futures at  14.(discussing popularity of Eurodollar futures); Sue S. Guan, Benchmark Competition , 80 MD.)

Like  other  interest  rate  futures,  Eurodollar  futures  were designed so the long position lost value as interest rates increased (and  reciprocally,  rose  in  value  as  rates  dropped)  with  a  fixed increment (and decrement) per basis point change in the referenced  rate.    Unlike  all  prior  futures  however  (including  all CFTC-regulated interest rate products), Eurodollar futures were cash settled.  There was no deposit account outside of the U.S. that would be delivered to the futures purchaser (i.e., long position) at settlement.    Instead,  the  difference  between  the  value  of  a hypothetical account  at  the  time  of  execution  and  the  time  of settlement was used to calculate an amount of cash the purchaser would receive if LIBOR dropped in the interim or pay if LIBOR rose.  This dispensed with Holmes's fictive distinction (See n. 36 supra .)  of futures contracts from illegal gambling instruments.  And the distinction was  no  longer  necessary  because  futures  contracts  traded  on CFTC-regulated exchanges were protected through preemption of state  law,  which  as  discussed  above  was  expressly  provided  for under  the  CFTC  Act  of  1974.    With  the  CFTC's  approval  of Eurodollar futures, precedent was set for a more attenuated link between futures and cash markets.

Eurodollar futures had another feature that would be influential in product development.  These contracts settled on the basis of an index rather than a concretely observed price.  Adriana Robertson defines an index as 'an aggregation of different pieces of information  into  a  single  number  based  on  some  algorithm.' (Adriana Z. Robertson, Passive in Name Only: Delegated Management and 'Index' Investing , 36 YALE J. REG. 795, 799 (2019).) LIBOR, as an index, was calculated through soliciting banks for the rates they would hypothetically charge to loan funds, and then pruning  outliers. (Gabriel Rauterberg &amp; Andrew Verstein, Index Theory: The Law, Promise, and Failure of Financial Indices ,  30  YALE J. REG. 1, 16 (2013) ('Libor is the average of the self-reported rates at which sixteen major commercial banks are offered large unsecured loans.').)  Through  collecting  quotes  for  hypothetical loans in the London interbank funds market, the index expressed the  cost  of  unsecured  funds  to  major  banks. (In  1986,  the  British  Banking  Association  (BBA)  began  to  administer LIBOR.)     This  served  as  a reference  point  to  other  private  borrowers,  who  could  generally expect a similar or higher rate depending on how their default risk compared to that of major banks. (See discussion of basis risk in Part I, supra .)

## B.  Stock and Other Index Futures

A  few  months  after  approving  Eurodollar  futures,  the  CFTC approved the first futures based on an equity index.  Their story is similar to the birth story of currency futures related above.  The Kansas City Board of Trade (KBOT) operated since 1856 and was known for agricultural commodities, and in particular, futures on the  relatively  nutritious  hard  red  winter  wheat. (Gregory Meyer, CME to buy Kansas City Board of Trade for $126m , FIN. TIMES, Oct. 18, 2012, at 14 (discussing acquisition of KBOT by CME in 2012).)     In  February 1982, the CFTC approved an application from KBOT to list stock index futures that referenced the Value Line Index.  The Value Line Index represents the combined value of stock from approximately 1,681 public companies.  Nowadays, relatively few mutual funds, exchange traded funds, or other financial products track the Value Line Index.

While  futures  on  the  Value  Line  Index  floundered,  futures settling  on  equity  indices  multiplied  and  became  a  substantial portion of derivatives markets. (Lynn Bai, The Regulation of Equity Index Futures , 22 TENN. J. BUS. L. 14, 17  (2020)  (introducing  types  of  broad  equity  indices  that  underlie  futures contracts).)   The CME obtained approval for futures on the S&P500 two months after KBOT's approval.  Like prior futures contracts, the Value Line futures from KBOT and the S&P500 futures  from  CME  were  designed  to  enable  hedging. (Bai, The  Regulation  of  Equity  Index  Futures at  21  (discussing  use  of equity  index  futures  to  hedge); Proposal  on  Stock-Index  Futures  Contract  Is Dealt  a  Setback  by  Silver  Market  Crash ,  WALL  ST.  J.,  May  19,  1980,  at  38 (discussing hedging uses for proposed Value Line index futures while highlighting concern that they may be used for irresponsible speculation).)

Various financial market participants (e.g., investors, dealers) had portfolios of stocks, which short positions on an index composed in significant part of those stocks could hedge.

Since  then,  a  variety  of  equity  indexes  have  been  developed covering  various  sectors  (e.g.,  energy,  aerospace,  healthcare), geographies (e.g., East Asia, Europe, Emerging Markets) as well as broad  composites  of  public  equities  listed  in  the  U.S.  (e.g., NASDAQ  100, Russel 2000 and 3000). To enable more participation and fine tuning, mini- and micro- contracts have been developed that allow purchase of futures with smaller exposure. (A year and a half later, in July 1983, CME received approval for a mini futures  on  the  S&amp;P500.    In  April  2019,  CME  received  approval  for  a  micro futures on the S&amp;P500 as well as other equity indices.) All  of  the  equity  indexes  have  in  common  that  their  values  are aggregates of public companies' share prices.  The construction of indices  varies,  however;  for  example,  some  indices  give  equal weight  to  all  shares  in  the  index  while  others  apply  a  market weighting so that companies with relatively more shares outstanding have higher representation in the index.

Equity index futures are cash settled.  Delivery of a basket of stock is operationally costly and may require fractions of shares. Instead of requiring physical settlement, the Value Line futures and subsequent equity index futures applied the cash settlement mechanics  developed  for  Eurodollar  futures. (L.T.  Thuong  &amp;  S.L.  Vischer, The  Hedging  Effectiveness  of  Dry-Bulk Freight Rate Futures , 29 TRANSPORTATION J. 58, 60 (1990) ('Futures trading on other  market  indices  [followed  soon  after  the  Value  Line  index  futures]. Indexation allows futures contracts to be traded on the basis of some market index and enables cash settlements to be made against the index value at the time  of  their  expiration.  Without  indexation,  futures  trading  would  not  be possible in markets composed of various components.').)   Where  the  index declines over the lifetime of the trade, the purchaser of the future (i.e.,  the  long  position)  pays  the  difference  between  the  value  at execution  and  the  value  at  settlement. (Generally,  the  index  value  is  multiplied  by  a  constant.    For  example, CME's mini S&P500 futures settle based on the product of $50 and the level of the S&P500 whereas micro S&P500 futures settle based on the product of $5 and  the  level  of  the  S&P500.    Like  other  futures,  equity  index  futures  are)     The  inverse  applies where the index increases in value.  It is worth noting an important distinction between a position through stock index futures and the same position through underlying stock.  Stock index futures do not enable the holder to exercise the rights of shareholders, such as  rights  to  receive  dividends  or  vote.    This  is  identical  to  the position  the  buyer  of  futures  would  be  in  if  the  buyer  instead contracted for a delivery of the stock on a future date through an off-exchange forward agreement (e.g., the deferred buyer would not be able to vote shares she did not yet have or receive dividends on such  shares).    However,  this  is  a  new  feature  relative  to  prior futures contracts.  Prior futures did not involve an asset that could profitably be used in the interim between execution and settlement (e.g., the foodstuffs underlying agricultural commodities could not be  eaten  and  then  delivered,  and  interest  rate  futures  were designed  to  reference  an  obligation  that  did  not  pay  coupons between execution and settlement).  This step further attenuated the requisite linkage between futures and related cash markets.

In the few years after the approval of stock index futures, CFTC approval  followed  for  a  wide  variety  of  cash-settled  index-based products.  For example, cash settled futures were approved based on indices representing the aggregate value of baskets of:

1. foreign currencies, which were introduced starting in 1985 to enable positions based on the U.S. dollar's relative value in global currency markets as opposed to its value relative to a specific currency; (Between 1985 and 1987, CME, CBOT and Philadelphia Board of Trade (PBOT)  obtained  CFTC  approval  for  futures  financially  settled  against  a 'European Currency Unit' and other currency indices.)   and
2. corporate bonds, which were introduced starting in 1987 to enable positions based on bond portfolios such as those held by pension funds and insurance companies; (Corporate  bond  indices  were  approved  in  October  1987.    CBT  and COMEX  had  approvals  on  10/27/1987.    The  former  launched  a  long  term corporate  bond  index,  whereas  the  latter  launched  Moody's  corporate  bond index.  Trading began 1-2 days later.)

margined at least daily.  This means that as the value of the referenced index changes over the lifetime of the trade, parties exchange variation margin as a form of collateralization synonymous with interim settlement.  Ilya Beylin, How Portfolio  Netting  Deters  Diversification  and  Competition  in  the  Derivatives Industry , U. PA. J. BUS. L. (forthcoming 2025) (explaining variation margin).

Freight rate futures illustrate some of the ingenuity powering futures  innovation  as  well  as  its  dispersion  beyond  the  U.S. (Markham & Harty, For Whom the Bell Tolls at 892-93 (discussing the importance  of  competition  from  non-U.S.  exchanges  for  U.S.  futures  market development).) Freight  rate  futures  were  the  first  service-based  as  opposed  to property-based  futures.    They  began  trading  on  London's  Baltic International  Futures  Exchange  (BIFFEX)  on  May  1,  1985. (L.T.  Thuong  &  S.L.  Vischer, The  Hedging  Effectiveness  of  Dry-Bulk Freight Rate Futures , 29 TRANSPORTATION J. 58, 58 (1990).) BIFFEX  futures  settle  based  on  an  index  that  reports  the aggregate  price  of  shipping  cargo  along  a  set  of  trade  routes. (Thuong & Visscher, The Hedging Effectiveness of Dry-Bulk Freight Rate Futures at 61 (Summer 1990) (examining components of the index, including as to what kinds of goods are transported on the relevant ships (first among them grain, and second coal), the size of the vessels (predominantly Panamax vessels carrying  between  50,000  and  80,000  deadweight  tons  that  are  able  to  sail through the Panama Canal), and the dominant routes (trans-Pacific followed by trans-Atlantic)).) While the routes vary greatly, as do the ships that are eligible to participate in the survey on which pricing is based, this aggregate provides a loose metric that reflects costs of shipping.  After the BIFFEX futures, additional futures were developed with the first U.S. freight futures being approved two decades later in 2006 upon application  from  the  newly  formed  Merchants  Exchange  of  St. Louis. (https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/dea/analysis/deabarge.htm. MESL futures  permitted  buyers  and  sellers  to  trade  transportation  commitments. Specifically, they enabled buying and selling barge services along U.S. rivers at certain  times  and  between  certain  locations  for  the  transport  of  grains. Nowadays,  there  is  a  range  of  freight  futures  for  both  wet  cargoes  (e.g., petroleum) and dry cargoes (e.g., coal, containers) between a wide range of routes globally. https://www.cmegroup.com/trading/energy/freight-futures-andoptions.html)

Index based futures, as developed further below, pushed further on the traditional role of CFTC-regulated futures and their relation to  cash  markets.    The  Eurodollar  contract  had  a  concrete  if hypothetical asset it referenced for purposes of calculating settlement price.  Namely, Eurodollar futures settled against the market value of a deposit account with a specified balance bearing a rate of interest for a specified term.  The deposit account was an asset  with  cash  (i.e.,  spot)  market  equivalents,  namely  actual deposits  made  for  specific  terms  in  London  and  other  financial centers outside of the U.S.  The interest rate raised a complication, as LIBOR represented a rate synthesized from reported interest rates  rather  than  a  rate  observed  in  cash  market  transactions. However,  because  LIBOR  was  a  widely  published  and  used reference for interest rates, it was relevant to cash markets.

Stock index futures differed from Eurodollar futures due to the multi-component nature of their referenced index.  Admittedly, an 'underlying asset' is recognizable in the context of an equity index futures. (However,  as  noted  already,  equity  index  products  involve  slippage between  cash  market  value  (which  includes  rights  to  dividends  and  voting rights) and the value of futures.)   But this asset has a composite nature.  The asset is not based  on  one  transaction  (e.g.,  purchase  of  grain,  purchase  of  a Treasury bond, extension of credit through making a term deposit) but instead related to a large combination of transactions (e.g., 500 distinct purchases of shares from 500 different firms in the case of the S&P500 index).  No single cash market is related to the futures contract, or is substitutable for the futures contract.  As a result, pricing  of  the  futures  contract  does  not  serve  as  a  reference  for pricing in cash markets.  At the time Holmes wrote the majority in Board of Trade v. Christie Grain & Stock Co. , farmers, wholesalers, exporters  and  others  used  prices  established  through  futures trading on the CBOT and other exchanges to set the price at which they  sold  or  purchased  grain.    This  function  of  futures  markets continued and was expressed in Section 3 of the Grain Futures Act and then the Commodity Exchange Act.  This function is wholly absent in the context of equity index futures and other futures that use an index reflecting the price of a multi-transaction basket.

Other  index  contracts  drifted  even  further  from  traditional links between cash and futures markets.  A prominent illustration came on April 16, 1985 when the CFTC approved an application from  the  Coffee,  Sugar,  &amp;  Cocoa  Exchange  (CSCEX)  of  futures based on the consumer price index (CPI).  A futures contract to hedge inflation was the brainchild of economists.  Over a decade earlier-soon after the birth of currency futures and prior to interest rate  products-Michael  Lovell  and  Robert  Vogel  authored  an article proposing a futures product that allowed hedging against inflation. (M.  Lovell  &  R.  Vogel, A  CPI-Futures  Market ,  81  J.  Pol.  Econ.  1009 (July/August 1973).)   CSCEX's launch of CPI futures based on a basket of consumer  expenditures  drew  tepid  market  interest,  despite  the nation's difficult experience with inflation in the 1970s. (Alan Blinder, The Anatomy of Double-Digit Inflation in the 1970s (1982) available at http://www.nber.org/chapters/c11462 (examining average 6.8 percent annual inflation over the 1970s).) Although economically of little import, conceptually this contract further expanded the CFTC's jurisdiction to products with attenuated  cash  market  linkage.    To  be  fair,  there  are  specific consumer expenditures (i.e., cash market activities) that compose the CPI.  However, these transactions are myriad.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics, which gathers the CPI, explains that:

'The CPI represents changes in prices of all goods and services purchased for consumption by urban households. User fees (such as water and sewer service) and sales and excise taxes paid by the consumer are also included. Income taxes and investment items (like stocks, bonds, and life insurance) are not included.'

The basket of purchases that the CPI tracks is extraordinarily broad, and as with the initial freight index, it is unlikely that any market participant will be exposed to the changes it tracks with any specificity. (Moreover, the cash market is incomplete as there is no ability to short components of the CPI such as housing costs and groceries.)   That is not to say that CPI futures cannot be used to hedge.  They can, albeit only for the relatively short-term period  for  which  futures  are  available.    However,  the  multicomponent nature of the index aggravates basis risk.  A farmer selling one kind of wheat but hedging using CBOT's wheat futures knows roughly the relationship between her wheat's prices and the prices of the wheat underlying the CBOT contract.  However, an exporter  using  BIFFEX  contracts  to  hedge  a  few  specific  routes carries substantial basis risk that the index price changes due to prices  of  routes  that  are  irrelevant  to  the  shipper.  Similarly, someone purchasing a CPI future may find that the CPI changes due to changes in the costs of services or goods the hedger doesn't usually  use.    This  is  an  important  point.    It  may  be  that  the hedger's housing or food costs evolve differently from the housing or food costs reflected in the CPI.  That is traditional basis risk (i.e., distinctions in prices of grain by grade, location or timing).  Multicomponent indices, however, raise a distinct type of noncorrelation.  It may be that the CPI includes expenditures that the hedger simply does not make, such as car-related expenses where the hedger lives in New  York City and relies on public transportation.   This slippage between indices and actual exposure may be more of a difference in degree than a difference in kindagain, basis risk is as old as futures-however, the attenuation is important in observing the expansion of the CEA's reach.

Suitability  for  investment  is  an  additional  dimension  along which  agricultural  futures,  for  which  the  CEA  was  established, differ from the futures markets the CFTC enabled by the end of the 1980s.    Investors  are  distinct  from  hedgers  and  speculators. Investors have savings, which they seek to grow at market rates. This is distinct from hedgers, who seek to transfer risks incurred in the course of their business or other activity.  And it is distinct from informed traders, who seek to make above market returns based on private information.  While agricultural futures are not suitable investment products, futures the CFTC authorized since 1974 have features that may allow them to function as investment instruments.

Derivatives are not a monolithic asset class.  As already shown and will continue to be explored in reviewing the history of futures authorization, products have different features and have evolved over time. The  asset(s) underlying  a  futures contract are important for understanding the behavior and potential uses of the contract.    Foodstuffs  are  perishable  goods  that  result  from  a production process that has become more efficient through time. This  is  reflected  in  the  prices  of  agricultural  commodities.    For example, the price of wheat increases by less than one percent per year, falling short of inflation.  While agricultural commodities may have been suitable for short term speculation in anticipation of  sharp  supply  changes  (e.g.,  war,  crop  disease,  weather),  they cannot be used for investment.   As a result, people do not use agricultural  futures  to  park  their  savings.    The  expansion  of regulated futures to other tangible commodities as well as financial assets, however, expanded  the  potential uses of futures to investment.  Annual returns on gold, oil, government and private debt, and perforce baskets of public equities substantially exceed returns  on  foodstuffs.    Figure  II.C  below  illustrates  returns  on assets referenced in popular futures contracts to provide a general sense  of  how  vastly  their  returns  outperform  the  sub-inflation returns on agricultural commodities.

Investment  using  futures  products  is  admittedly  non-trivial relative  to  investment  through  funds  and  cash  markets.    An investor  can  buy  shares  or  warehouse  receipts  for  tangible  nonperishable  commodities  and  hold  them  in  a  brokerage  account. Alternatively, a person can invest in a fund that holds these assets (and perhaps, other assets).  In contrast, an investor using futures markets has to regularly incur transaction costs as futures expire, settlement  takes  place,  and  new  futures  have  to  be  purchased. This is particularly true as typically futures with longer expiration periods have lower liquidity and higher transaction costs.  Putting aside  these  practical  considerations,  however,  the  observation stands: unlike agricultural products, the assets underlying regulated futures after the CFTC was established became suitable for investors willing to take market returns rather than just cash market participants seeking to hedge and speculators seeking to outperform the market.  This was a reason that the CFTC began a turf  battle  with  the  SEC,  which  had  traditionally  overseen instruments through which firms obtained capital and investors allocated savings. (See David J. Gilberg, Regulation of New Financial Instruments under the Federal  Securities  and  Commodities  Laws ,  39  VAND.  L.  REV.  1599,  1635-39 (1986) (discussing the early jurisdictional conflict between the CFTC and SEC).)   This subject will be returned to in Part III below.

## C.  Introduction of Event Contracts

In the two decades after its birth in 1974, the CFTC approved contracts  referencing  increasingly  more  exotic  variables  with pricing further and further removed from identifiable cash market transactions.    These  were  heady  days  for  those  arguing  against government  involvement  in  market  activity. By  1995, the Interstate Commerce Commission was abolished.  Prior to that, the Berlin Wall fell and the Soviet Union collapsed.  Although these events expressed something far more complex, and distinct from, the theorized merits of 'free markets' as compared with centralized planning under the Communist model, these epochal milestones anchored popular perception, politics and directions of regulatory policy.

It  was  no accident that the approval of index-based products began under Ronald Reagan's presidency.  James Stone, who was chair of the CFTC under Carter, refused to approve the Value Line index futures.  He likened equity index futures to 'gambling.' (Proposal on Stock-Index Futures Contract Is Dealt a Setback by Silver Market Crash, WALL ST. J., May 19, 1980, at 38 (“Despite the industry claims, ‘I’ve yet to be convinced that this is anything but gambling,’ says CFTC Chairman James Stone. If the commission finds that’s all it is, then the whole idea is doomed CFTC staffers say. To be legally traded, a futures contract must serve an ‘economic purpose,’ such as hedging. So far, says another official, “I haven’t seen that clear economic purpose demonstrated.”))   It was only after Reagan's chairman Phillip McBride Johnson took over running the CFTC that index-based futures were authorized. First, Johson led approval of the Eurodollar futures and then the approval of Value Line and other equity index futures. (Johnson had been a partner at the Chicago law firm Kirkland & Ellis prior to his appointment. There, he represented clients from the futures industry. He was an immensely capable lawyer with a keen sense of industry interests, and would write the preeminent treatise on derivatives regulation that enables young associates to practice in the field to this day. Philip McBride Johnson et al., DERIVATIVES REGULATION (Wolters Kluwer 2024).)

Derivatives  implicate  longstanding  social  concerns  with  the balance  between  profits  and  productivity.    Humans  have  been suspicious  of  financiers  for  millennia  as  examined  in  usury scholarship, among other fields. (James G. Frierson, Changing Concepts on Usury: Ancient Times through the Time of John Calvin, 7 AM. BUS. L.J. 115, 123 (1969)(discussing how John Calvin's teachings began to modify longstanding religious prohibitions on taking any interest).)   As people get wealthy through financial  activity,  some  mix  of  resentment  and  genuine  concern over resource allocation poses the question: what has this person really done to earn her wealth?  Allen Frankel, who was among other things a chief economist at the Federal Reserve in the 1980s, frankly and eloquently reflected:

'[I]n  many  quarters,  questions  continue  to  be  raised  about  the rationale  and  justification  of  the  proliferation  of  financial  futures contracts and about whether, in fact, such markets mainly serve to provide  opportunities  for  speculation.  Those  who  take  this  view generally  see  recent  innovations  in  financial  techniques  as  having adversely affected economy-wide productivity growth. James Tobin has  expressed  such  sentiments  by  admitting  to  '.  .  .  an  uneasy Physiocratic suspicion, perhaps unbecoming in an academic, that we are throwing more and more of our resources, including the cream of our  youth,  into  financial  activities  remote  from  the  production  of goods and services, into activities that generate high private rewards disproportionate to their social productivity.'' (Frankel, Interest Rate Futures at 3.)

Complicating views on the value of financial activity are the resemblances and overlaps between financial activity and gambling, which were already introduced above.  Judgments, or simply assumptions, about the risks and social utility of financeand  derivatives  specifically-define  political  positions. (See, for example, Remarks by J. Christopher Giancarlo, Chairman of the CFTC, at the Eurofi Financial Forum (September 6, 2018) (“Friedrich Hayek argued that free market economics is the foundation of the highest form of human freedom. And, ultimately, that is what I am urging with these recommendations: the freedom of private enterprise that fires the imagination, liberates trade and commerce, unleashes markets lifts our fellow citizens into greater prosperity.”). Walt Lukken, Chairman of the CFTC, The Derivatives World is Flat (June 14, 2006) (celebrating innovation, competition and technology as forces for advancement in derivatives markets). On the other hand, far left commentators offer reductionist dismissals of derivatives. See, for example, Lynn Stout, Derivatives and the Legal Origin of the 2008 Credit Crisis, 1 HARV. BUS. L. REV. 1, 30-31 (2011) (misrepresenting the hedging utility of cash-settled products by making the nonsensical assertion that they cannot be used to hedge because they do not require physical delivery).)     And appointees predictably express party positions as they lead agencies. (Todd Phillips, Commission Chairs, 40 YALE J. REG. 277, 283 (2023) (explaining how the chairs of the CFTC and other agencies have far more influence on policy than other commissioners).)     Under  the  post-Cold War pre-2008 Financial Crisis presidencies  of  George  H.  W.  Bush,  Bill  Clinton  and  George  W. Bush, futures markets (and derivatives markets more generally) received increasing deference from lawmakers. (See Tim  Wu, Agency  Threats ,  60  DUKE  L.J.  1841,  1849-51  (2011) (observing that Hayekian predictions about the relatively limited information available to lawmakers encouraged Congress to limit regulation and promote 'natural' development within derivatives market as, inter alia, manifest in the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000). David M. Driesen, Legal Theory Lessons from the Financial Crisis , 40 J. CORP. L. 55, 64-66 (2014) (observing that a deregulatory ideology influenced lawmakers in the period between the 1980s and the 2008 financial crisis, and explains among other things, the nurturing approach lawmakers took to derivatives markets).)

Before George H. W. Bush completed his presidency, the CFTC began  to  approve  futures  and  options  without  cash  market references.  These included contracts that CBOT submitted to the CFTC in June 1990, which would settle on the basis of insurers' operating  experience. (Stephen  P.  D'Arcy  &amp;  Virginia  Grace  France, Catastrophe  Futures:  A Better Hedge for Insurers , 59 J. RISK. INS. 575, 575 (1992).)     CBOT  catastrophe  insurance  futures provide  an  example.    Following  a  protracted  approval  process, these  futures  began  trading  in  December  1992. (Michael  Bayard  Smitha  &amp;  L.  Jamie  Pickles, An  Introduction  to Catastrophe  Insurance  Futures ,  COLLECTED  PAPERS  FROM  4TH  ACTUARIAL APPROACH FOR FINANCIAL RISKS INTERNATIONAL COLLOQUIUM 817, 822 (April 1994).)     The  futures settled on the basis of an index tracking experience among property and  casualty  insurance  providers. (Robert P. Eramo, Insurance Catastrophe Futures at 49.)     The  index  consisted  of  a numerator and a denominator.  The former expressed claims for property and casualty losses over a quarter under a set of policies. The latter aggregated premia paid for those policies.  As a result, the index proxied for the ex post profitability of a set of policies (i.e., it was a ratio that captured important features of insurers' cost and revenue structures). (Notably, the index did not purport to measure profitability.  Among other things, it did not account for investment returns from the premia or the sales and administrative costs of policies.)  The index was not based on the price of any product, instead reflecting a partial measure of financial performance. (Premia are the prices of insurance contracts.  However, the index was not based on premia alone.  Rather, it included claims histories and tracked the extent to which premia covered those claims histories.)   Contemporaneously, the CFTC approved similar products for health insurance and homeowners insurance.  With the  approval  of  these  products,  the  CFTC  effectively  announced that futures could be settled based on variables other than market prices.

In  the  same  period,  Hayekian  philosophy  concerning  the information aggregating capacity of market-pricing bloomed into application.  Naturally, the first to express theory in action were academic economists.  In June 1988, the Iowa Electronic Market (IEM)  began  trading  contracts  that  settled  on  the  basis  of  who would win the 1988 election in which the main three candidates were George Bush, Michael Dukakis and Jesse Jackson. (Robert  Forsythe, Forrest Nelson, George R. Neumann &amp; Jack Wright, Anatomy of an Experimental Political Stock Market , 82 AMER. ECON. REV. 1142, n.1 (Dec. 1992) (noting that similar experiments using markets were run at 'the University of Rochester, California Institute of Technology, Princeton University,  the  Wharton  School  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  and  the Brookings  Institution  during  the  1988  campaign').      Initially,  the  Iowa Electronic Market was called the Iowa Political Stock Market.)   The market offered participants a bundle of four contracts it sold for two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50).  There was one contract for each of  the  main  three  candidates  and  one  for  the  rest  of  the  field. Market participants could unbundle and sell the contracts via the exchange.    Following  the  election,  each  contract  would  pay  a product determined by multiplying $2.50 by the relevant candidate(s) share of the popular vote.  Because the popular vote would sum to 100% across the contracts, the bundle of contracts would necessarily pay $2.50 at settlement.  However, the price of each individual contract within the bundle fluctuated based on how much of the popular vote the referenced candidate(s) were expected to receive.  For example, if a candidate received 10% of the vote, the contract referencing that candidate would pay $0.25 (i.e., 10% *  $2.50).    As  a  result,  to  the  extent  market  participants  could anticipate  the  outcome  of  the  popular  vote,  they  would  sell  the contract for anything over a quarter and buy the contract for prices below that.  The IEM reflected the computerization of the financial industry in the 1980s and was  wholly electronic, allowing participants to submit orders to buy or sell contracts at specific prices  via  personal  computer.    The  IEM  had  192  participants trading on the 1988 election and the pricing that derived from their judgments predicted the popular vote extremely well.

The IEM was unregulated when it was formed.  To avoid state law prohibitions on gambling, the IEM exclusively served members of the University of Iowa community. (Id. at n. 5.)   To expand participation, the IEM sought relief from the CFTC prior to the 1992 election. The IEM submitted a request for a no-action letter to the CFTC, which the CFTC granted on February 5, 1992.  Notably, the noaction letter did not take a position as to whether IEM markets traded  in  CFTC  regulated  contracts. (A component of the request for no-action proposed a separate market on earnings  per  share  of  major  corporations.    These  were  clearly  linked  to  the performance of securities, and the CFTC cautioned IEM that not only would it not provide no-action relief but that the SEC could take action.  As a result, the IEM never launched trading to predict companies' earnings per share.)     Whether  or  not  the proposed contracts were subject to CFTC regulation, the no-action letter  stated  that  the  CFTC  would  not  take  enforcement  action provided  certain  conditions  were  met. (Professor George R. Neumann, CFTC No-Action Letter, CFTCLTR No. 9204(a),  (February  5,  1992);Professor  George  R.  Neumann,  CFTC  No-Action Letter, CFTCLTR No. 93-66, Comm. Fut. L. Rep. P 25, 785, 1993 WL 595741 (June 18, 1993)..)     The  conditions  were meant  to  assure  that  the  IEM  operated  at  a  small  scale  as  an experimental,  non-commercial venture  that  lacked  the  economic clout  to  seriously  impact  political  outcomes.    These  conditions included  that  the  professors  operating  the  IEM  did  not  receive related compensation, that there were fewer than 2000 participants, that the maximum purchase by any participant was capped  at  $500,  and  that  the  IEM  operate  exclusively  for  an academic or experimental purpose. (Id. Because the IEM was not treated as a futures exchange, the CFTC warned when granting no-action relief that the IEM would separately need to address concerns of triggering state anti-gambling laws.)   Following the birth of the IEM,  additional  academic  projects  were  launched  that  used markets  to  predict  election  outcomes. (Id. (discussing  other  prediction  markets  launched  prior  to  1992). See also Neil Quigley, CFTC No-Action Letter, CFTCLTR No. 14-130, Comm. Fut. L. Rep. P 33324, 2014 WL 5499971 (Oct. 29, 2014); Clarke v. CFTC , No. 1:22-CV909-DAE, 2024 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 28124 (W.D. Tex. Jan. 16, 2024) (lawsuit filed by  PredictIt  after  the  CFTC  withdrew  no-action  relief,  allegedly  following PredictIt straying from the conditions on which that relief rested).)       The  no-action  relief granted  to  IEM  birthed  a  parallel  strain  of  instruments,  which were outside of the CFTC's jurisdiction, and devoted uniquely to aggregating information as distinct from enabling hedging, pricing, or investment.

While IEX and other small or foreign prediction markets began to operate outside of the CFTC's jurisdiction, regulated exchanges continued to develop more and more exotic regulated products.   In 1995, CBOT received authorization for a number of futures (For ease of exposition, the discussion omits that in this instance and in others, that the CBOT also received CFTC approval to trade various options referencing similar settlement terms.)  with settlement based on crop yields of specific agricultural products in specific areas.  Yield futures demonstrate both a gap in traditional agricultural  futures  and  a  step  beyond  them.    The  prototypical farmer  could  use  traditional  grain  futures  to  hedge  against fluctuations  in  the  price  of  grain.    For  example,  at  the  time  of planting, the farmer could enter into a contract to deliver 1,000 bushels in the September or December following the summer.  The farmer would be paid based on current prices of wheat when selling those futures.  In exchange, the farmer would deliver the wheat in lieu of selling it at September or December prices (or, alternatively, offset the futures obligation through buying inverse futures at the time  of  settlement  and  then  delivering  her  grain  to  the  market based  somewhat  on  the  price  of  the  offsetting  futures).    This enabled the farmer to shed price risk.  But this transaction did nothing about 'yield' risk, or the farmer's uncertainty as to the volume of her harvest.  How could the farmer know when planting how many bushels of wheat she would have to sell?  If she used her historical averages, she may oversell futures in a bad season or remain  partly  exposed  to  market  price  fluctuations  in  a  good season.  As a result, farmers generally waited long after planting to get a sense of their harvest (i.e. yield) before hedging price.  Yield futures addressed this distinct source of risk.

For example, the CBOT introduced futures covering the harvest of corn in Illinois within specific periods. (The  CFTC  approved  similar  contracts  on  harvests  in  Indiana,  Ohio, Nebraska, and the whole of the United States.  Similarly, it approved contracts on  soybean,  winter  wheat,  spring  wheat,  and  other  crop  harvests.    These contracts  were  designed  to  substitute  for  crop  insurance  that  was  already available at the time of the futures' development.)   These contracts settled on  whether  actual  yields  exceeded  or  fell  short  of  historical averages.  Crop yield futures were not-price based.  Instead, they settled based on growing and harvest season-end reports of yield from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. (The unit of trading for the contract is the State's yield estimate times $100 (e.g., a yield of 132.2 bushels per acre gives a contract value of $13,220). Tomislav Vukina, Dong-feng Li &amp;Duncan M. Holthausen, Hedging with Crop Yield Futures: A Mean-Variance Analysis ,  78 AMER. J. AGR. ECON. 1015, 1016 (Nov. 1996).  Contract months are September and January.)   The futures enabled hedging based on the volume of wheat produced.  Where state level events (such as weather, pests, fertilizer costs, diseases) as distinct from farm-specific events affect harvests, farmers and other users of grain can use the futures to obtain a hedge against variations in volume. (Id.)     Notably,  the  underlying  events  referenced  in  yield futures are not financial.  As discussed above, insurance futures approved  in  1992  moved  beyond  price  variables  in  calculating settlement values.  However, the insurance futures were based on financial  events,  namely,  payments  of  premia  and  coverage  of related claims.  In contrast, yield futures were based on natural phenomena, namely, the volume of plants generated by an acreage. The index was sourced from a government agency, thought to be neutral  and  credible.    As  the  variables  permitted  to  drive  cash payments  under  regulated  futures  contract  became  more  exotic and departed further from prices observed in cash markets, the CFTC drew no lines and instead approached contract submissions on a case-by-case basis.

The  CME  became  an  innovator  in  weather  derivatives,  i.e., futures and options that settled on the basis of weather events. Since  harvest  futures  had  been  approved,  phenomena  from  the natural world were fair game for settlement.  In 1999, the CME obtained approval for futures and options that settled against an index tracking temperatures. (CME  Plans  First  Exchange-Traded  Weather  Temperature  Futures, Options , PR NEWSWIRE, Feb. 4, 1999, 1.)   Specifically, the index tracked the extent  to  which  daily  temperatures  in  a  period  exceeded  or  fell short  of  the  sixty-five  degree  Fahrenheit  threshold  below  which utilities  need  to  provide  heating  and  above  which  additional electricity  is  needed  for  air-conditioning.      Subsequent  weatherrelated exchange traded contracts would settle on the basis of other natural phenomena such as wind-related events (e.g., number of named storms that make landfall in the U.S.), levels of precipitation  (e.g.,  regional  snowfall  or  rainfall),  and  various fluctuations in temperature.

Without any requirement to transfer risk based on changes in market prices, instruments only had to serve hedging purposes to demonstrate their listing eligibility.  But as already observed, the extent  to  which  a  contract  has  hedging  utility  is  a  question  of degree.    Even  traditional  grain  futures  impose  basis  risk.    The extent to which a contract's settlement price evolves inversely with a hedger's exposure is a highly context dependent question and can only be observed in hindsight with all the defects of hindsight bias. Thus conditioning contract approval on a level of hedging utility poses difficult questions for the CFTC. (The CFTC could obtain assistance in making these complex judgments through  requiring  submission  of  information  developed  in  product  design, including  copies  of  marketing  studies  exchanges  conduct  when  assessing whether and how market participants may use a proposed product.)   How are the lawyers and economists  at  the  agency  to  judge  whether  a  proposed  product would meaningfully serve market participants' hedging needs?  To what extent should the CFTC be too liberal or too conservative in permitting contracts, particularly given the myriad reasons even contracts with substantial hedging utility fail?  The CFTC could choose  to  err  in  favor  of  being  too  deferential  to  markets  and approve contracts with scant hedging functions, or it could err in favor of being too strict and reject contracts that could have had substantial  uses  in  neutralizing  risk.    Instead  of  taking  time  to reflect and formulate a comprehensive policy on product approval that  takes  into  account  the  CFTC's  legal  authority  and  the principles that the agency serves, the CFTC engaged in decades of contract-by-contract review that led it down a slippery slope.

There  are  a  number  of  possible  explanations  for  the  CFTC's failure to invest in long-term guidance.  One story would point to the CFTC being resource constrained and using the bandwidth it had to deal with pressing demands such as addressing applications from market participants, overseeing registrants and enforcing the CEA.  CFTC employees can only be expected to work so much, and the  CFTC  didn't  get  budget  for  additional  employees  or  other resources.    And  the  Chairs  and  Commissioners  may  be  more interested  in  delivering  high  level  talks  in  fancy  forums  and preparing  for  their  next  career  step  than  analyzing  granular reports on law or markets from CFTC staff, let alone engaging in the difficult, systemically nourishing project of technocracy. Another  story  points  to  how  the  CFTC  benefits  from  approving products.  As discussed above, the 1974 amendments to the CEA enabled the CFTC to expand its jurisdiction to all traded futures, options  and  underlying  cash  markets.    As  a  result,  authorizing novel  products  expanded  the  CFTC's  jurisdiction,  making  the agency and the Agricultural committees in Congress more relevant.  This helped all of the primary decisionmakers, drawing lobbyists to Congressional committee members and creating career opportunities  for  those  at  the  CFTC.    The  industry,  oversight committees, the Chair, the Commissioners, and staff at the CFTC all had personal reasons to grow the CFTC's jurisdiction through expanding the range of regulated instruments. (Moreover, growth into areas traditionally regulated solely under state law-as opposed to products within the SEC's jurisdiction or relevant to the Treasury or banking regulators-allowed the Agricultural Committees and the CFTC to  expand  power  without  wrestling  it  away  from  other  Congressional committees.)   A third story is that consensus was simply lacking.  The scope of contracts that could  be  approved  under  the  CEA  is  not  obvious  and  requires complex judgment informed by law and market activity.  There is genuine and substantial room for debate, and in lieu of consensus on  a  framework,  the  individuals  involved  took  a  case-by-case approach.   The fact that the Chair and Commissioners have fiveyear terms and typically arrive with little sense of priorities (and, more frequently than one would hope, applicable law and industry practice)  shortens  the  timeframe  during  which  investment  in policy  could  take  place,  even  if  there  was  an  appetite  for  it. Whatever the explanation, the result was a step-by-step expansion in  the  permissible  types  of  contracts  and  put  the  CFTC  in  the difficult  position  of  considering  applications  for  futures  wholly unmoored from cash market prices.

In 2001, HedgeStreet filed an application to become a CFTCdesignated  trading  market. (Merc, Board of Trade Could Face 2 New Rivals , CHICAGO TRIBUNE, May 28, 2003, at 3 .  HedgeStreet began informal meetings with the CFTC to explore an approval for a novel exchange in 1999.  Letter from Gregory Robbins, outside counsel to Hedge Street, to Jean Webb, CFTC Secretary at 1-2 (Oct. 20, 2003).)     From  its  inception,  HedgeStreet sought only to list event contracts. (Hedge Street to Launch Exchange for Options , LOS ANGELES TIMES, Feb. 20, 2024 at C4.)   Its application went through a  grueling  process  during  the  first  term  of  the  George  W.  Bush presidency. (CFTC  Division  of  Market  Oversight ,  Designation  Memorandum  re HedgeStreet 4-6 (February 10, 2004) [hereinafter HedgeStreet Designation].) HedgeStreet  was  the  first  applicant  to  seek designation  under  a  new  regime  that  came  into  place  with  the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000.  As amended by that Act and discussed further below, the CEA continued to serve a 'public interest' defined as enabling hedging and cash market pricing (Walter L. Lukken, CFTC Commissioner, Testimony Before the Committee on Agriculture United States House of Representatives regarding Energy Markets at  2  (April  27,  2006)  (identifying  the  twin  roles  of  futures  in  assisting  with managing risk and establishing pricing in related markets).) ;  however,  a  requirement  that  the  CFTC  review  every listed futures and options contract to assure that the product would serve this public interest was removed. (The CFMA removed section 7 U.S.C. 7(7), which required the CFTC to assess  whether  a  proposed  new  contract  served  the  public  interest,  or  more precisely, required an exchange to 'demonstrate[] that [futures transactions] for which designation as a contract market is sought will not be contrary to the public interest.'  After the CFMA, exchanges could obtain authorization to list contracts through either submitting an application for prior approval or through self-certifying the contract and the CFTC not challenging the certification. N. 8, supra .)   Prior to its approval, HedgeStreet  represented  that  it  'anticipat[s]  that  its  contracts would allow institutions and individuals risk management opportunities  that  existing  exchanges  do  not  provide,  although HedgeStreet did not file any contracts with its application.' (HedgeStreet Designation at 2.)   On February 10, 2004, after more than two years of analysis and a resubmission, the application from HedgeStreet was granted.

HedgeStreet  was  a  unique  contract  market  when  it  was formed.    It  included  a  clearing  facility,  which  was  approved together  with  the  exchange.    The  clearing  facility  was  trivial, because of how HedgeStreet designed its contracts.  As detailed in its rulebook, (Exchanges seeking CFTC designation submit the rules that would govern trading in listed products, among other things.)  HedgeStreet listed only binary options. (HedgeStreet  Designation  at  2  (describing  the  binary  options  that HedgeSteet would offer).)   These were  contracts  similar  to  what  the  IEX  had  designed,  which required  no  margin  or  other  sophisticated  risk  management because they were fully prepaid, i.e., parties to the contract did not have  contingent  payment  obligations. (Because of how the binary options were designed, exchange participants did  not  have  contingent  obligations  to  the  exchange.    If  it  did  have  those obligations, they would have to be valued and collateralized on a daily basis, which is an expensive proposition.  Furthermore, the exchange was relatively cheap to operate because it targeted retail market participants that required little in the way of product features and customer support and could be obtained through  internet  marketing.    Furthermore,  because  it  was  all  electronic, HedgeStreet did not need to incur the real estate and other expenses of running trading floors.)     HedgeStreet  sold  twocontract bundles, and supported trading in the individual contracts.    The  components  of  the  bundle  were  designed  to  be mutually exclusive and comprehensive of all potential outcomes. For  example,  in  a  bundle  referencing  a  merger  between  two companies, the two contracts would pay in opposite cases. (This is not an idle example.  In mid-June 2007, Hedge Street, which was renamed  the  North  American  Derivatives  Exchange  (NADEX),  listed  binary options settling on the basis of ten potential M&amp;A transactions between various firms: (1) NASDAQ &amp; Philadelphia Exchange; (2) ISE and NYSE; (3) ISE and Deutsche Borse; (4) Hershey and Cadbury; (5) News Corp and Dow Jones; (6) Yahoo and Microsoft; (7) Sirius and XM; (8) Topps and Upper Deck; (9) Google and Salesforce; and (10) Tornante and Madison Dearborn.  HedgeStreet was not the first to offer options that settled on the basis of whether mergers took place. That honor goes to an affiliate of Eurex, a major European exchange, which attempted to compete in the U.S. with CME, CBOT and ICE through an affiliate, USFE.  In May 2007, USFE certified two contracts, which settled respectively on whether (a) CME and CBOT would merge, and (b) whether ICE and CBOT would merge.  As detailed above, CME and CBOT merged, leading to significant changes in the U.S. derivatives industry.  USFE had a difficult time obtaining regulatory approval in the U.S. and went on to fail. James E. Newsome, CFTC Chairman, Remarks Before the USFE Designation Hearing on the Approval of U.S. Futures Exchange, Application for Contract Market Designation (February 4, 2004) https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/SpeechesTestimony/newsomestatement020404)   The first contract would pay the price of the bundle less transaction fees if the merger occurred within the year; the second contract would pay the price of the bundle less transaction fees otherwise.

Between 2006 and 2007, Hedge Street began trading contracts that settled on the basis of whether a specified level of (a) yield per acre was achieved for an agricultural product in a particular region and time period; (b) damage was done by hurricanes or other storm events in a specified region over a specified time period; (c) initial jobless  claims  was  reported  by  the  U.S.  Department  of  Labor. HedgeStreet also listed binary options that settled on the basis of: (1)  natural  gas  and  crude  oil  inventory  levels;  (2)  economic variables such as retail sales, unemployment claims, manufacturing levels, and nonfarm payrolls; (3) prices of gasoline, heating  oil,  propane,  residential  real  estate,  prescription  drugs, hospitality services and other consumer expenditures; (4) currency exchange rates; and (5) storm and hurricane damage estimates. (At  around  the  same  time  that  HedgeStreet  was  launching,  Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank partnered in launching a derivatives exchange based on economic variables, such as reported U.S. nonfarm payrolls, manufacturing survey results and metrics of retail sales.  Paul Taylor, Economic Derivatives: A New Class of Derivatives from Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs is Seen as a Sharper Instrument ,  FIN. TIM., May 24, 2003, at 26 This so called 'Economic Derivatives' exchange operated approximately between 2002 and 2007.  Erik Snowberg,  Justin  Wolfers&amp;  Eric  Zitzewitz, Prediction  Markets  for  Economic Forecasting, in 2(A) HANDBOOK OF ECONOMIC FORECASTING 657 (Graham Elliott &amp; Allan Timmermann eds., Elsevier 2013). Unlike HedgeStreet, which targeted retail  traders,  the  Economic  Derivatives  exchange  aimed  at  sophisticated institutions. Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank operated the exchange without CFTC approval, I believe possibly under an exemption for markets with only eligible contract participants, i.e., a class of sophisticated persons.)

Many  of  these  contracts  reproduced  futures  already  being traded  on  CBOT  or  CME,  subject  to  one  alteration:    instead  of transferring  the  magnitude  of  risk  as  commonly  done  through futures,  the  HedgeStreet  product  transferred  risk  in  a  binary manner.    For  example,  these  products-although  purportedly designed for hedging-did not distinguish, between (a) crop yields falling short of a threshold by a little or an asteroid hitting the state and all farmland being eviscerated; (b) storms causing a bit more damage  than  the  threshold  and  an  unprecedented  hurricane season that led to widespread bankruptcies among insurers and general economic collapse; or (c) a slight softening of the job market that triggered the threshold and a massive loss of jobs due to an unprecedent  pandemic  such  as  COVID19.    The  HedgeStreet products were by design crudely binary and aimed at retail traders. While it is difficult to say that the products lacked hedging utility, they were far from as tailored in how they transferred risk than preexisting products were.

Although it transferred risk in a crude fashion, the HedgeStreet product model did have a justification.  Traditional futures, which expose market participants to continuous ranges of risk, require margining. (The  same  is  generally  true  of  swaps,  and  the  sale  (as  opposed  to  the purchase) of non-binary options.)   Margining, among other things, requires parties to a futures transaction to post or receive collateral on a daily basis. (See n. 24, supra , and surrounding text.) The following  example  illustrates  the  relevance  of  margining  to traditional futures as distinct from event contracts in the form of binary options.

Consider a futures contract on the price of grain.  If the futures contract is executed at current market  prices of grain for settlement  in  two  months'  time,  each  party  is  exposed  to  a continuous range of risk.  The party that sold the grain is subject to the risk that the price increases.  The price could theoretically increase  to  infinity,  so  there  is  no  upper  bound  on  the  seller's exposure.    No  amount  of  prepayment  would  be  sufficient,  and instead, derivatives markets  have  traditionally required the posting  of  variation  margin  to  cover  increases  in  price  as  they occur.    The  long  position  is  distinct,  but  also  exposed  to  a continuous range of risk.  Prices can decline, which results in losses to the purchaser up to a maximum where prices reach zero and the purchaser's loss converges to the price at execution (i.e., for every cent  the  price  of  referenced  grain  declines,  the  purchaser  of  the futures loses a cent). (There is precedent for prices falling below zero, such as when during the COVID19 pandemic,  oil  purchasers  were paid to  take  barrels  of  oil  because storage capacity was over-extended.  Laila Kearney, Coronavirus: US Oil has Dropped to Below $0 Dollars a Barrel , REUTERS (April 21, 2020).)   Although a purchaser could prepay for all potential losses on the futures by initially depositing an amount that  would  be  deliverable  if  prices  reach  zero,  for  efficiency (because prices rarely fall so much and the additional capital costs on futures-purchasers would deter trading) that historically has not been done. (Risk  management  generally  does  not  seek  to  eliminate  risk  but  to adequately mitigate it. See Christopher L. Culp, Merton H. Miller &amp; Andrea M.P. Neves, Value at Risk: Uses and Abuses ,  10 J. APPLIED CORP. FIN. 25, 27 (Winter 1998) (explaining how risk is commonly managed to achieve a non-zero amount of expected losses).)   Instead, purchasers-like sellers-post variation margin as prices change.

To continue the example, consider two binary options instead of a futures contract.  The first binary option pays $100 if the price of grain  is  below  $6/bushel  at  the  time  of  settlement.    The  second binary option pays $100 if the price of grain is equal to or above $6/bushel at the time of settlement.  These binary options can be fully  prepaid  with  a  payment of $100 plus any transaction fees. This is the structure that IEM developed, which is discussed above. And this structure does not require margining over the lifetime of the trade because no party to the options contract can incur any additional liability over its lifetime - the maximum payable under both options is $100, which is paid at the outset.  Being responsive to margin calls on a daily basis-as futures require-is expensive and not something retail and other smaller traders can generally support.    That  is  why  from  an  administrative  or  operational perspective, binary options are better suited to retail participants. The  costs  of  calculating,  obtaining,  transferring  and  custodying collateral are avoided, making the products cheaper to supportboth  for  traders  and  intermediaries.    And  as  already  explained, binary options can be used to hedge, but in a far more limited way than the futures contracts.  When a farmer buys options that pay if prices go below $6/bushel and sells options that pay if prices are at or above $6/bushel, the farmer does obtain a limited hedge.  The farmer makes money from her harvest if prices increase and makes money  from  the  options  if  prices  decrease  below  $6.    However, while the amount she loses on her harvest falls continuously as prices  approach  $0  per  bushel,  the  amount  she  receives  as compensation on the options does not change.  The payout is the same whether prices are at $5/bushel or $1/bushel. (At  the  cost  of  additional  transaction fees, the farmer could use binary options to better approximate the continuous price risk she faces on her harvest. This could be done through purchasing additional options that pay if prices go lower, for example, one option that pays if prices fall below $6/bushel, another option that pays if prices fall below $5.50/bushel, another option that pays if prices fall below $5/bushel, and so on. In practice, however, these strategies tend to be impractical because fees on transactions are high and the distinct strike prices at which contracts are available are relatively far from each other (e.g., the price risk between  wheat  selling at $6/bushel and  $5.50/bushel is significant).)   This makes the hedge relatively crude.  But a crude hedge may be better than no hedge if a trader can't access traditional products, as is the case for many retail participants.  If products such as those developed by HedgeStreet can be justified from a customer perspective, this is  generally  how  they  would  be  justified,  i.e.,  they  offer  hedging opportunities where practical alternatives do not exist.

Market-based  pricing  as  a  philosophy  of  social  coordination reached an apotheosis in the handful of years prior to the financial crisis of 2008. (As  a  trivial  but  illustrative  example  of  product  development  in  this period,  in  August  2006,  the  CFTC  authorized  CME's  real-estate  index  based futures, which professors Karl Case and Robert Shiller had designed to track residential real estate price trends.)   When Hedge Street submitted its application to be designated as a contract market, CBOT and CME vociferously argued against it in submissions to the CFTC.  HedgeStreet came back with letters from three leading professors, claiming the utility of its products for hedging.  Ronald Howard explained to the CFTC:

'I was surprised and dismayed to learn that the CME and CBOT have filed negative comments on HedgeStreet and are asking the CFTC  to  deny  HedgeStreet  market  designation.  For  many decades, those who have studied risk markets have deplored the incompleteness of these markets that causes ordinary people to be unable to take prudent actions that would minimize the effect of risk  on  their  lives.  The  innovations  that  HedgeStreet  proposes would go a long way toward correcting the inadequacy of current markets.' (Comment Letter from Ronald Howard, Stanford Professor, to Jean Webb, CFTC Secretary, Regarding HedgeStreet's DCM Application (Oct. 20, 2003). See also, Comment Letter from Robert Shiller, Yale Professor, to Jean Webb, CFTC Secretary, Regarding HedgeStreet's DCM Application (Oct. 20, 2003) (expressing  perfunctory support for  the  'extensive  risk  management  purpose that will be served by this new market'); Comment Letter from Kenton K. Yee, Columbia Business School Professor, to Jean Webb, CFTC Secretary, Regarding HedgeStreet's DCM Application (Oct. 20, 2003) (claiming HedgeStreet contracts would  enable  participants  to  'hedge  away  risks  in  ways  that  are  currently impossible with existing risk management tools' and that if the platform was not approved, it was 'just a matter of time before someone (if not U.S., then overseas) will implement this idea.)'

The letters from distinguished professors offering support for HedgeStreet did not consider the details of the contracts HedgeStreet proposed to list or how these contracts would address risks faced by retail or other participants.  It was taken on faith that the instruments would be useful for risk management. (The involvement of professors in futures product approval is not novel. Leo Melamed, who was chairman of the CME and launched IMM, worked with Milton Friedman in the approval of the first suite of currency hedging products and subsequent interest rate hedging.  Leo Melamed, The Birth of FX Futures at 5 (describing how Milton Friedman helped CME lobby Arthur Burns, George Schultz, and Paul Volcker in the authorization of currency futures).  Melamed recalls  with  appreciation:  'I  remember  the  winter  of  1975.  Alan  Greenspan instantly loved the idea of T-bill futures. The fact that Milton Friedman loved it too did not hurt. When the CFTC would not approve our contract unless William Simon, the Secretary of the Treasury acquiesced, Milton Friedman telephoned him. Our contract was approved the same day. Milton Friedman, you will recall,)

By early 2008, the CFTC began to systematically reflect on the attenuation between emerging products and the traditional roles of futures contracts, issuing a concept release to solicit comments on the trend (the ' 2008 Concept Release '):

'Since  2005,  the  Commission's  staff  has  received  a  substantial number of requests for guidance on the propriety of offering and trading  financial  agreements  that  may  primarily  function  as information aggregation vehicles. These event contracts generally take the form of financial agreements linked to eventualities or measures  that  neither  derive  from,  nor  correlate  with,  market prices or broad economic or commercial measures.' (Concept  Release  on  the  Appropriate  Regulatory  Treatment  of  Event Contracts , 73 Fed. Reg. 25669, 25670 (May 7, 2008).)

The Concept Release was developed under then Chairman Walt Lukken.  Lukken had an unusually long leadership tenure at the CFTC, having served as Commissioner from August 2002 and been promoted Chair in June 2007.  The release identified the period in which Lukken was a Commissioner but the prior two George W. Bush chairs led the agency as the time when the flood of prediction products began, although it acknowledged precedent emerged in the early 1990s:

'Since  1992,  Commission-regulated  exchanges  have  listed  for trading a variety of commodity futures and options contracts with payout terms based on interests other than price based interests. These contracts involve interests as diverse as regional insured property losses, the count of bankruptcies, temperature volatilities,  corporate  mergers,  and  corporate  credit  corporate mergers, and corporate credit events.' (Id. at 25671.)

Unfortunately, Lukken's attempt to organize agency thinking was abandoned.  The comments that were made on the Concept Release were relegated to the proverbial drawer when derivatives markets convulsed in the summer of 2008 and the financial crisis did  the  honors  of  ringing  the  opening  bell  on  the  IMM's  first  interest  rate contract.' Id.

Since the CFTC's abandoned attempt to reflect on permissible exchange-traded products, contracts with questionable hedging  capacity  and  no  relation  to  cash  market  pricing  have proliferated. In December 2011, Hedge Street, which had renamed itself as the North American Derivatives Exchange (NADEX), filed certifications with the CFTC to list contracts on federal elections. (CFTC, In  the  Matter  of  the  Self-Certification  by  North  American Derivatives Exchange, Inc., of Political Event Derivatives Contracts and Related Rule Amendments under Part 40 of the Regulations of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (April 2, 2012).) Specifically, the exchange wanted to trade binary options similar to what IEX offered based on (a) the presidential election, (b) the majority in the House, and (c) the majority in the Senate. (Others  sought  to  offer  similar  products  while  defying  the  CFTC's authority. CFTC v. Trade Exch. Network Ltd. , 318 F. Supp. 3d 26, 32-33 (D.D.C. 2018)  (imposing  penalties  against  the  Intrade  market,  which  operated  a prediction market offshore and did not challenge whether its prediction products qualified as derivatives under Section 3(a) of the CEA).)     The CFTC rejected these proposals.  However, since then, the CFTC has  approved  hundreds  of  contracts  with  only  tenuous  hedging potential and no contribution to cash market pricing.  As discussed below in Part III, these contracts predominantly serve a distinct economic purpose-if any-namely that of prediction.

Growth  in  exotic  products  occurred  through  both  further product development from established exchanges-primarily the CME- as well as products developed by new exchanges such as Cantor Exchange, Eris Exchange, and most recently in June 2024, ForecastEx. (CFTC Grants ForecastEx, LLC DCO Registration and DCM Designation , Release Number 8926-24 (June 25, 2024).)   Among the new exchanges, KalshiEx is responsible for a substantial portion of prediction product submissions.

The  CFTC  approved  KalshiEx  at  the  tail  end  of  the  Trump administration, on November 3, 2020. (CFTC, Order of Designation: In the Matter of the Application of KalshiEX LLC for Designation as a Contract Market (Nov. 3, 2020).)   KalshiEx enables trading on  a  range  of  esoteric  events  including  many  bordering  on  the trivial such as movies' ratings in Rotten Tomatoes, whether and which  University  Presidents  will  fall  for  their  approach  to  the October 7 attack by Hamas and Israel's response against Gaza, and how  many  weeks  Taylor  Swift's  album,  The  Tortured  Poet's Department, will spend at the number one spot on the Billboard 200.  Arguably, the broad range of offerings that covers front page issues  such  as  the  results  of  awards  shows  (e.g.  Grammys), whether there will be over ten thousand asylum seekers in a given month, and whether the U.S. will ban tik-tok caters to a new, retail audience.  The low costs of launching products partly explains the myriad  options  available  to  KalshiEx  customers.    A  number  of independent factors are responsible for the low cost of developing new products.  Lawyers have commodified product certifications. Online  trading  is  highly  scalable.    And  as  discussed  above  in introducing  HedgeStreet,  binary  options  carry  no  counterparty credit risk that requires expensive management because they are fully prepaid.  Growing cultural acceptance of online transactions as  well  as  the  ease  of  marketing  digital  products  help  spread adoption.

## III. WHY MOST EVENT CONTRACTS ARE INELIGIBLE FOR TRADING UNDER THE CEA

As introduced in Part II, in the early 1990s, the CFTC began approving futures that settled without reference to market prices. Since their development in the second half of the 1800s, futures contracts had consistently set prices in related cash markets.  From the birth of futures regulation through over half a century, only futures that referenced actual market prices were permitted.  This began  to  change  with  the  approval  of  indexed  products,  which strained and ultimately broke the connection between futures and prices in cash markets.  However, the futures without connection to  any  cash  markets  that  were  approved  in  the  1990s  retained substantial hedging utility, at least on a theoretical level. (D'Arcy &amp; France, Catastrophe Futures: A Better Hedge for Insurers at 579)   For example,  the  insurance  products  described  above  did  offer  an alternative  to  reinsurance  for  unusually  high  losses  due  to catastrophes or other events.  Even the hedging utility of futures, however,  began  to  slip  in  the  2000s.    Binary  options  offered  a design  that  traded  low  operational  costs  for  low  specificity. Because  binary  options  were  prepaid, they did not require margining.    But  the  binary  settlement  outcomes  that  enabled prepayment also limited the instrument's hedging utility. As the CFTC approved products with only attenuated connections to the public interest that expressly motivates the CEA, a question arose as  to  what,  if  anything,  the  products  the  CFTC  was  approving achieved for the public.

There is perspective that comes with reviewing the history of derivatives' evolution. Each step away from statutory assumptions about the role of derivatives looks relatively small and justifiable, but in the aggregate, the steps trace a path that has led to many products being authorized despite having scant if any connection to the goals of derivatives regulation.  The CFTC has ignored its decades-long jurisdictional drift.  The agency should undertake a review of traded products to delist those that have only attenuated connection to the purposes of the CEA.  Many products should not benefit  from  preemption,  and  instead,  be  subject  to  state  law  including restrictions on gambling.

One could argue that the CEA's jurisdiction extends to products that  do  not  serve  the  CEA's  stated  purpose.    In  that  case,  this Article continues to be valuable primarily in two ways.  First, it empirically  traces  the  trajectory  of  derivatives  evolution  in  the preceding Part II. Second, as a policy matter, one  may nevertheless agree that the CEA's jurisdiction should be limited to achieving  the  purposes  of  hedging  and  pricing  in  related  cash markets.  The policy reasons for extending state law protections are reviewed in Part III.C below.  If the current language of the CEA is insufficient to prohibit authorization of contracts that fail to  adequately  advance  hedging  or  pricing  goals,  the  following (examining  whether  CBOT  insurance  futures  can  substitute  for  reinsurance products in managing risk).

language  could  be  added  to  CEA  §  5c(c),  which  governs  the approval of new products: 'No product may be listed under the CEA that does not materially advance the public interest of the CEA as provided under Section 3 hereof.'

The  rest  of  this  Part  III  considers  interpretive  and  policy argument against this Article's proposal that the CFTC relinquish control over products with limited hedging and pricing utilities so that they return to state regulation.  These arguments stem from a distinct, predictive function of financial products, which the IEM and subsequent prediction markets developed.  Before turning to the legal and policy reasons against a retrenchment of the CFTC's reach, the predictive role of financial products is introduced and examined.

## A.  How Financial Products Aggregate Information and Enable Prediction

The significance of price is a central and illuminating insight in the study of economics.  Friedrich Hayek is a standard bearer for the power of prices to aggregate information.  As Cass Sunstein observed in 2006:

'Deliberation is one way to aggregate privately held information, but there are many other possibilities. An obvious alternative is to  rely  on  the  price  signal,  which  has  a  similar  aggregative function. As Hayek emphasized, the price mechanism is a kind of 'marvel,' because it combines widely dispersed information held by diverse people. And  if an emphasis is placed on the information-aggregating  properties  of  markets,  it  would  seem plain  that,  to  improve  on  the  answer  produced  by  deliberating groups,  we  might  consider  an  increasingly  popular  possibility: Create a market.' (Cass  Sunstein, Deliberating  Groups  versus  Prediction  Markets  (or Hayek's Challenge to Habermas) , EPISTEME 192, 205 (2006).)

The importance of price in financial markets is both intuitive and heavily  theorized.    As  quoted  above,  writing  well  before  Hayek,

Justice  Holmes  understood  that  when  a  person  has  private information about the value of a financial instrument, the person may profitably trade on that information and thereby indirectly share that private information with others as pricing adjusts. (N. 40, supra , and surrounding text.) For example, if a biologist discovers a strain of poisonous bacteria spreading through American wheat fields, the expert can buy grain futures on the expectation that grain prices will increase due to diminished supply.  This is an example of what Justice Holmes refers to as competent speculation, or 'prophesizing', that leads to 'equalizing prices' between the present and the future.

Finance scholars have long studied how privately held information  is  absorbed  into  the  prices  of  financial  products through transactions in those products.  These studies, which will be  expanded  on  below,  distinguish  informed  from  uninformed traders.    Informed  traders  have  private  information  that  is  not reflected in market prices.  Through buying (selling) at the market price, informed traders can make a profit when they have private information that the value of the instrument is higher (lower) than other traders believe.  Imbalanced demand (supply) from informed traders drives the price of the instrument up (down), in accordance with  basic  economic  theory (This is a reference to increases in demand increasing price and increases in supply decreasing price.) ,  albeit  operationalized  through market micro-structure. (See, e.g. ,  Albert S. Kyle, Continuous Auctions and Insider Trading ,  53 ECONOMETRICA 1315 (1985); Lawrence R. Glosten and Paul R. Milgrom, Bid, Ask and Transaction Prices in a Specialist Market with Heterogeneously Informed Traders , 14 J. FIN. ECON. 71 (1985))

In securities and derivatives markets, prices absorb information concerning the future returns of the relevant instrument. (Elisabeth de Fontenay &amp; Gabriel Rauterberg, The New Public/Private Equilibrium and the Regulation of Public Companies , 2021 COLUM. BUS. L. REV. 1199, 1227 (2021) (discussing absorption of information into stock price).)   Similar mechanics can be exploited to turn markets into  predictive  mechanisms,  as  Sunstein  refers  to  above (Text preceding n. 172, supra .)   and IEM  implemented. (Note 132 and surrounding text, supra .)     If  there  are  two  potential  outcomes,  a market that launches and supports trading in two instrumentsone paying if the first outcome occurs, and the second paying if the alternative outcome occurs-will yield expectations as to the two outcomes. (This example is generalizable to where there are three or more potential outcomes, through separate instruments linked to each outcome as IEM did with respect to 1988 presidential election outcomes.)  Provided the market attracts sufficient liquidity and otherwise functions, the price of each instrument should converge to the product of the likelihood of the occurrence and the payment upon the occurrence, with the likelihood being based on traders' dispersed  beliefs.    By  dividing  the  price  by  the  payment,  the likelihood  is  obtained.    Hence  the  instrument's  price  embeds  a prediction.    This  is  how  IEM,  HedgeStreet,  KalshiEx  and  other exchanges design their products.

Information  embedded  in  prices  has  long  been  thought publicly  and  privately  valuable. (Ilya Beylin, Taxing Fictive Orders: How an Information-Forcing Tax Can Reduce Manipulation and Distortion in Financial Product Markets , 85 U. CIN. L.  REV.  91,  99-102  (2018)  (reviewing  why  financial  instruments'  pricing information is a public good).)     This  is  particularly  true  of prediction products, which have been celebrated by academics and market  enthusiasts  for  their  potential  to  credibly  aggregate information. (Snowberg, Wolfers&amp;  Zitzewitz, Prediction Markets for  Economic Forecasting at 6 ('Three inter-related facets lead to prediction markets' ability to  produce  accurate,  reliable  forecasts.  First,  the  market  mechanism  is essentially  an  algorithm  for  aggregating  information.  Second,  as  superior information will produce monetary rewards, there is a financial incentive for truthful revelation. Third, and finally, the existence of a market provides longer term incentives for specialization in discovering novel information and trading on  it.  While  these  facets  are  inherent  in  any  market,  other  forecasting mechanisms, such as polling, or employing professional forecasters, lacks one or more  of  them.');  Michael  Abramowicz, Information  Markets,  Administrative Decisionmaking, and Predictive Cost-Benefit Analysis ,  71 U. CHI. L. REV. 933, 937  (2004)  (proposing  to  involve  prediction  markets  in  the  development  of agency actions). But see Rebecca Haw Allensworth, Prediction Markets and Law: A Skeptical Account , 122 HARV. L. REV. 1217, 1221-24 (Feb., 2009) (cautioning about the efficacy of prediction markets); Jonathan Masur & Jonathan Remy Nash, Promoting Regulatory Prediction , 97 INDIANA L. J. 203, 218 (2022) (same). See also Hillary Allen, Fintech and Techno-Solutionism , 98 S. CAL. L. REV. (2025) (forthcoming) (arguing against the trend of finding regulatory uses for commercial products).)     The  informational  content  of  prices  offers  a justification  for  markets  in  financial  instruments  distinct  from their  utility  for  undertaking  investment  and  hedging  activities, and  distinct  from  developing  prices  that  can  be  used  in  cash markets.    This  Article  does  not  dispute  this  distinct  value  of financial  markets.    Rather,  the  Article  rejects  that  exchanges organized  under  the  CEA  are  authorized  to  offer  products  that have a predictive function as distinct from hedging or cash market pricing functions.  Whether or not these exotic products offer social value,  they  must  be  regulated  under  state  law  rather  than  the CEA.

## B.  The CFTC is not Authorized to Govern Products Based on Predictive Utility

Part I.C above traces the purpose of regulation under the CEA. As  developed  there,  derivatives  are  not  seen  as  an  end  in themselves.  Rather, the public's interest in derivatives and their regulation  flows  from  how  derivatives  enable  other  business activity.  Namely, derivatives enable (i) hedging and (ii) pricing in related cash markets.  Until the CFMA amended the CEA in 2000, these twin public interests were unambiguously the justification for  federal  derivatives  regulation.  However, the development of derivatives  markets  led  to  the  compact,  abstract  and  arguably ambiguous language of present-day Section 3(a):

'(a)  FINDINGS.-The  transactions  subject  to  this  Act  are entered into regularly in interstate and international commerce and are affected with a national public interest by providing a means for managing and assuming price risks, discovering prices, or  disseminating pricing information through trading in liquid, fair and financially secure trading facilities.'

Although  this  language  from  the  CFMA  provides  an  awkward


definition,  the  'national  public  interest'  related  to  derivatives should not be construed as extending beyond their contribution to hedging and cash market pricing. (As  a  matter  of  logic,  it  does  not  follow  from  Section  3(a)  that  if  a transaction does not serve the specified public interest then it is not subject to the CEA.  However, when sense is added to logic, the language of Section 3(a) should be read as defining transactions subject to the CEA as exclusively those that serve the public interest specified in Section 3(a).)

Pursuant  to  Section  3,  the  public's  interest  in  derivatives markets consists of 'managing and assuming price risks', 'discovering prices' and  'disseminating pricing information.' These phrases are considered in turn.  One may argue that any instrument  that  creates  risk  and  thereby  enables  a  party  to 'assume'  that  risk  satisfies  the  first  goal.    On  reflection,  this position should be seen as absurd.  The creation of risk is not itself beneficial, and is likely to be harmful. (See W.C.  Bunting, A  Better  Legal  Definition  of  Gambling:  With Applications to Synthetic Financial Instruments and Cryptocurrency , 86 ALBANY L. REV. 257, 324 (2023) (distinguishing gambling from other financial activity in that the latter creates risk as opposed to transferring it).)   Although assumption of risk is referenced, that assumption is combined with management and refers to the fact that when one party manages risk through its transfer, another party assumes that risk. (The  grammatical  choice  made  by  Congress  supports  this  reading  of 'managing and assuming' as a single phrase.  If either was sufficient to justify the regulation of an instrument under the CEA, 'or' would be used instead of 'and' so that the phrase would read 'managing or assuming price risk.')   This is the role of intermediaries and speculators in derivatives markets,  who provide liquidity to hedgers even when they do not themselves use the  instruments  to  hedge. (Ilya Beylin, Designing Regulation for Mobile Financial Markets , 10 U.C. IRIVINE L. REV.  497, 507-09  (2020) (describing  how  intermediaries  and speculators assume risks from commercial market participants).)     Moreover,  both  management  and assumption of risk do not refer to any risk.  They refer only to 'price risk'.    Given  that  legislative  qualifier,  which  captures  over  a century of market practice, a variety of instruments that are not based on cash market prices are beyond the CEA.  This potentially disqualifies futures as early in the evolution of exotic instruments as  the  insurance  futures  CBOT developed in the early 1990s. (Arguably, the CBOT insurance futures transfer risk related to insurance contract premia under-charging for coverage.  Those premia are prices, because they reflect how much the policy holder pays for coverage.  Under this view, the CBOT insurance futures would be permissible under Section 3.)

Predictive instruments that serve to aggregate information - as opposed to instruments that enable the transfer of price risk - do not achieve the interest of 'managing and assuming price risks'.

The next two phrases 'discovering prices' and 'disseminating pricing information' also should be analyzed collectively. (See, e.g. , A New  Regulatory Framework  for Trading Facilities, Intermediaries and Clearing Organizations , 66 Fed. Reg. 14262, 14267 (March 9, 2001) (implementing the CFMA and observing that '[M]arkets that serve a price discovery function are required to disseminate publicly certain  market information . . . [t]his information provides a great benefit to the public in terms of ensuring the supply of economic guidance to commodity producers and users . . .') (emphasis added) [hereinafter A New Regulatory Framework ].)   They refer  to  the  traditional  role  of  futures  markets  in  establishing prices  that  cash  market  participants  use,  which  Justice  Holmes observed over a century ago and which the GFA and then the CEA explained prior to the modification of Section 3 under the CFMA. (Preceding  the  CFMA,  CEA  §  3  explained  the  public's  interest  in derivatives regulation as follows: 'Transactions in commodities involving the sale thereof for future delivery as commonly conducted on boards of trade and known as "futures" are affected with a national public interest. Such futures transactions  are  carried  on  in  large  volume  by  the  public  generally  and  by persons  engaged  in  the  business  of  buying  and  selling  commodities  and  the products and byproducts thereof in interstate commerce. The prices involved in such transactions are generally quoted and disseminated throughout the United States  and  in  foreign  countries  as  a  basis  for  determining  the  prices  to  the producer and the consumer of commodities and the products and byproducts thereof and to facilitate the movements thereof in interstate commerce. Such transactions are utilized by shippers, dealers, millers, and others engaged in handling commodities and the products and byproducts thereof in interstate commerce  as  a  means  of  hedging  themselves  against  possible  loss  through fluctuations in price. . . .') To understand the CFMA's amendment of Section 3, it is helpful to understand what changes in derivatives markets the CFMA was responding  to.    By  the  time  of  the  CFMA,  other  derivatives primarily  swaps-had  become  popular  and  were  being  traded outside  of  CFTC-regulated  exchanges.    The  CFMA  sought  to nurture  the  off-exchange  market,  referred  to  frequently  as  the over-the-counter market notwithstanding that some of the market was  conducted  through  brokers,  electronic  platforms  and  other intermediaries.  Towards this, the CFMA provided an exemption for certain 'transactions in exempt commodities' (See CFMA § 101 (adding classes of 'exempt' and 'excluded' commodities to the CEA).)  and developed two regulatory categories for platforms where derivatives could be traded without registration as a contract market  (i.e., the traditional regulatory classification of derivatives exchanges under the  CEA  discussed  in  Part  I, supra ). (CFMA § 106, codified at CEA § 2, provided an exemption for bilaterally executed  transactions  in  exempt  commodities  such  as  interest  rate  swaps, foreign  exchange  swaps  and  other  swaps  between  sophisticated  market participants.    CFMA  §  111,  codified  at  CEA  §  5a,  provided  for  derivatives transaction execution facilities.  CFMA § 114, codified at CEA § 5d, provided for exempt boards of trade.  The latter two exemptions enabled an 'exchange light' regime for certain products where a low risk of manipulation was anticipated and  where  only  relatively  sophisticated  parties  could  participate. A  New Regulatory  Framework at  14262  (explaining  the  three  tiers  of  regulation  for derivatives markets under the CFMA).)     In  each  of  these  cases, however, the exemption from market transparency requirements turned on whether the relevant derivatives 'perform[] a significant price discovery function for transactions in the cash market for the commodity  underlying' the derivative. (CEA § 2(h)(4)(D), as amended by CFMA (emphasis added). See CEA §§ 5a(d)(5) and 5d(d), as amended by the CFMA (same).) If the derivative performed a significant price discovery function for the relevant cash market, dissemination of pricing information for that derivative  was  required.    It  was  the  CFMA  that  introduced  the terms 'price discovery' and 'price dissemination', and in context, those terms referred to the discovery and subsequent dissemination of prices relevant to underlying cash markets.

It is possible to argue that predictive instruments enable a form of 'price discovery' and 'price dissemination.'  Specifically, these instruments  by  their  design  aggregate  likelihoods  into  price, thereby enabling the collection and dissemination of that information.  This argument would recognize a novel function for derivatives  instruments  and  a  significance  to  derivatives'  price that  Congress  did  not  acknowledge  when  enacting  the  CFMA. There is no evidence that Congress believed derivatives instruments should be used to serve a predictive function. (As discussed in Part I, supra , since Board of Trade v. Christie Grain &amp; Stock Co. , derivatives have been distinguished through their utility for hedging and price discovery in cash markets.)   The standalone Hayekian value of pricing information as distinct from the  practical  insight  derivatives  market  prices  provide  for  cash market values is foreign to the CEA.  The legislative history of the CFMA  as  well  as  the  use  of  related  terms  in  Congressional hearings reflects that 'price discovery' and 'price dissemination' were used in reference to the utility derivatives have for establishing prices in related cash markets. (See,  e.g. ,  Testimony  of  CFTC  Chair  Mary  Shapiro  before  the  House Banking  and  Financial  Services  Committee  (March  30,  1995)  ('Commodity futures and options contracts are risk-shifting instruments that . . . provide a means to construct and adjust hedges on all types of commodities and financial instruments quickly and cheaply . . . In addition, because the price of a futures or option contract is derived from the value of an underlying commodity, the prices  that  result  from  futures  trading  serve  as  reference  points  in  cash markets.'); Report of the President's Working Group on Financial Markets, Over the Counter Derivatives Markets and the Commodity Exchange Act (Nov. 1999) (in arguing against the regulation of swaps markets, distinguishing swaps from futures in that the former do not serve the price discovery functions that the latter  have  served);  Hearing  before  the  House  Committee  on  Agriculture, Subcommittee  on  Risk  Management,  Research  and  Specialty  Crops, The Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 H.R. 4541 at 21 (June 14, 2000); A New Regulatory Framework at 14267 (discussing price discovery and price dissemination  as  serving  price  formation  in  cash  markets  referenced  by regulated derivatives); Exempt Commercial Markets , 68 Fed. Reg. 66032, 6603435 (Nov. 25, 2003) (same).)   To propose that the CEA  should  extend  to  predictive  products,  preempting  their regulation  under  state  law,  is  to  read  these  terms  as  academic economists might rather than as they were used in Congressional settings. (The Dodd-Frank Act added a new section 5c(c)(5)(C) to the CEA, which required the CFTC to apply additional scrutiny to event contracts involving '(I) activity that is unlawful under any Federal or State law; (II) terrorism; (III) assassination; (IV) war; (V) gaming; or (VI) other similar activity.'  The CFTC is implementing restrictions on these referenced contracts. Event Contracts ,  89 Fed.  Reg.  48968,  48969-70  (June  10,  2024).    However,  this  applies  to  only  a relatively  small  (albeit  controversial)  segment  of  the  contracts  this  Article argues are beyond the CEA's authority. See also , Statements of Commissioners Dan M. Berkovitz and Brian D. Quintenz Related to Review of ErisX Certification of NFL Futures Contracts (arguing whether exchanges should be permitted to support legalized sports gambling through enabling wholesale hedging of risks bookies and others incur in relation to NFL games).)   It would also recognize a value in derivatives markets disconnected from how they further cash market activity.

## C.  State Law is an Adequate Home for Public Prediction Markets

Thus far, the argument for placing products with predominantly predictive functions beyond the CEA has been legal. Simply put, a product is outside of the scope of the CEA and should be  governed  by  state  law  if  it  has  scant  utility  for  hedging  or informing  cash-market  pricing. (Fabio Mattos, Innovation in Future Markets: Event Contracts, Speculation and Hedging available online at https://agecon.unl.edu/innovationfutures-markets-event-contracts-speculation-and-hedging (Nov 9, 2022) (questioning the hedging utility of event contracts).)     A  response  may  be  that subjecting these products to state law would make it difficult to offer these products at all; this response is pragmatic, and points to  complying  with  a  patchwork  of  state  law  in  lieu  of  a  single federal  regime  as  complex  and  expensive.    In  other  words, whatever the law is, one could argue that the status quo should be preserved as a policy matter. (See, e.g. , Jennifer Hughes, Prediction Markets Tipped for New Growth as US Trader Interest Mounts , FIN. TIM., July 8, 2024 (quoting Dartmouth College economics professor arguing that 'I'm hoping that (the CFTC) use as light a hand as possible, so that we have a chance to see people try to innovate and then see what happens').)   This Article does not attempt to engage  in  a  cost-benefit  analysis  to  understand  the  relative advantages  of  regulating  prediction  products  (and  other  noncompliant  contracts)  under  the  CEA  as  opposed  to  state  law. Instead, it assigns products between regimes based on the interests those  regimes  target,  assuming  the  regimes  are  appropriately designed.    Because  of  the  importance  of  gambling  to  prediction market operation, state law regimes are an appropriate regulatory setting for these markets.

A successful market requires liquidity from uninformed traders. (See, e.g. ,  Albert S. Kyle, Continuous Auctions and Insider Trading ,  53)   Uninformed traders are willing to take market prices, which creates liquidity (i.e., a supply of potential transactions to other  market  participants). (Merritt B. Fox, Lawrence R. Glosten &amp; Gabriel V. Rauterberg, The New Stock Market: Sense and Nonsense ,  65  DUKE L.J. 191, 206 (2015) (explaining how adverse selection risk reduces liquidity when informed traders participate in a market).)     There  are  distinct  reasons  that uninformed  traders  may  be  willing  to  take  market  prices,  even when they know they are thereby taking a short-term loss due to trading  on  incomplete  information.    In  securities  markets,  the reason tends to be that the purchaser accepts the market rate of return. (Henry  T.  C.  Hu, Faith  and  Magic:  Investor  Beliefs  and  Government Neutrality , 78 TEX. L. REV. 777, 803 (1999-2000) (reviewing perceived benefits to investing in stock market).)   In other words, people buy securities to invest given that decades  of  returns  commend  these  instruments  as  a  superior destination  for  allocating  savings. (See n. 118, supra , and surrounding discussion.)     In  traditional  derivatives markets, the reason for uninformed participants to trade is that the  person  (e.g.,  commercial  user  of  the  underlying  commodity) seeks to hedge. (After 1974, some derivatives instruments with reasonable returns were developed  so  investment  may  also  be  a  motive  for  uninformed  traders  in derivatives markets.)   The other common use of markets is gambling, e.g., odds are created as people bet on which team will win some sporting contest.  Gamblers know that in taking market odds, they are taking a loss -- but either the entertainment value is worth it or they have mental health issues such as addiction that motivate their transactions. (A form of gambling takes place to some extent in securities markets and derivatives markets, although these markets have rational purposes described above that go beyond personal consumption in the form of entertainment and education.  This Article does not discuss the insurance market, which has a risk management function similar to that of the derivatives market.)

ECONOMETRICA 1315, 1317 (1985) ('market depth is proportional to the amount of noise trading and inversely proportional to the amount of private information (in  the  sense  of  an  error  variance)  which  has  not  yet  been  incorporated  into prices.'); Lawrence R. Glosten &amp; Paul R. Milgrom, Bid, Ask and Transaction Prices in a Specialist Market with Heterogeneously Informed Traders , 14 J. FIN. ECON. 71, 72 (1985) ("[T]he core idea is that the [specialist, i.e., market-maker, i.e.,  dealer]  faces  an  adverse  selection  problem,  since  a  customer  agreeing  to trade  at  the  specialist's  ask  or  bid  price  may  be  trading  because  he  knows something that the specialist does not. In effect, then, the specialist must recoup the  losses  suffered  in  trades  with  the  well  informed  by  gains  in  trades  with liquidity traders.').

In  the  absence  of  liquidity  from  these  classes  of  uninformed traders (investors, hedgers, and gamblers) financial markets do not function. (See Tom  W.  Bell, Private  Prediction  Markets  and  the  Law , 3  J. PREDICTION  MKTS.  89,  91  (2009)  (offering  an  incomplete  but  substantial taxonomy of purposes a financial instrument may serve).)     Being  an  informed  trader  means  having  some information about the future performance of a financial asset out of a range of potential private information.  Even if a trader has private information concerning a product's future performance, the trader will be unlikely to trade if (s)he knows that the counterparty also has private information. In other words, in a market composed exclusively of informed traders, liquidity is likely to be scarce. (See n. 198, supra .) To  understand  why  rational  fear  would  retard  trading,  it  is important to keep in mind that there is no a priori distribution that defines  the  potential  import  of  private  information.    There  is  a limitless  universe  of  developments  that  can  affect  the  prices  of financial instruments, so informed traders facing other informed traders know they don't know what they don't know and that what they don't know may be material. (Andrei Shleifer and Lawrence H. Summers, The Noise Trader Approach to  Finance ,  4  J.  ECON. PERSPECTIVES 19, 22 (1990) (explaining that informed traders  'might  not  exactly  know  what  [the  fundamental  value  of  a  financial instrument] is, or be able to detect price changes that reflect deviations from fundamentals').)   This deters trading where all traders know their counterparties are only trading because they have contrary private information. (See, e.g. , Paul G. Mahoney, Equity Market Structure Regulation: Time to Start Over ,  10  MICH. BUS. ENTREPRENEURIAL L. REV. 1, 18 (2020) (discussing preference of liquidity providers, i.e., dealers, for trading against uninformed traders).)   The tension between price accuracy, which informed trading generates, and liquidity, which informed trading deters, is well understood.  A balance is required. Where a product lacks investment or hedging utility, to the extent there is liquidity, that liquidity comes from the product's use for gambling. (The  educational  value-as  opposed  to  the  entertainment  value-of trading is ignored.)

Public prediction products have no investment utility, necessarily providing a negative return once fees are subtracted. (See discussion of IEM, HedgeStreet and other prediction markets above. Businesses have been known to sponsor subsidized internal prediction markets, which  overcomes  the  problem  created  by  zero-sum  trading  among  informed participants. See Michael  Abaramowicz  &amp;  M.  Todd  Henderson, Prediction Markets for Corporate Governance , 82 NOTRE DAME L. REV. 1343, 1351 (2007) (discussing subsidized internal prediction markets).) If the product lacks hedging utility, the only uninformed class of trader  that  would  participate  would  be  a  gambler.    Absent  a gambling  motivation  contributing  liquidity,  a  prediction  market would  need  to  rely  on  informed  traders  trading  against  one another, which is a recipe for an illiquid market that would lack the  volume  requisite  for  commercial  success. (See W.  C.  Bunting, A  Simple  Unifying  Framework  for  Categorizing Disparate Risk Transactions: Securities Investments, Insurance, Gambling, and Derivative  Contracts ,  25  U.  PA.  J.  BUS.  L.  295,  298-99  (2023)  (distinguishing gambling from other transactions that increase risk for at least one counterparty,  including  transactions  insurance,  derivatives,  and  investment products).)     As  a  result, commercially successful prediction markets likely derive a substantial amount of liquidity and revenue from gambling, which is traditionally governed under state law (as distinct from federal securities or derivatives or banking law).  Accordingly, while it may complicate  operations  for  platforms  offering  products  that  have predictive utility - as distinct from hedging utility - the traditional state interests in regulating gambling apply in full.

## CONCLUSION

To  some  extent,  trading  in  financial  instruments  represents raw,  uninformed  speculation. (See Nicholas  Barberis, Psychology-Based  Models  of  Asset  Prices  and Trading Volume , in Douglas Bernheim, Stefano Della Vigna, and David Laibson, eds.:  HANDBOOK  OF  BEHAVIORAL  ECONOMICS  (2018)  (overviewing  irrational determinants of financial market activity).)     Uninformed  speculation  is  a euphemism  for  gambling.    However,  in  the  context  of  financial markets,  gambling  is  permitted.    The  reason  is  that  gambling lubricates markets, enabling trading for other, socially responsible, purposes. (It is also difficult to distinguish gambling from other market activity on an ex ante basis, so it is hard to regulate gambling in financial markets without imposing ex post penalties on those whom the market separately punishes.)   Gambling in derivatives markets subsidizes hedging and  pricing,  just  as  gambling  in  securities  markets  subsidizes capital formation and investing.

As developed in Parts I and III, however, the permission for gambling in derivatives markets under the CEA is not limitless.  It is conditional on the instrument serving either of the twin public interests in related cash markets: hedging or pricing.  Instruments that do not meaningfully advance either interest should not receive the benefits of regulation under the CEA.

The CFTC has failed to articulate boundaries on permissible instruments,  instead  taking  a  case-by-case  approach  to  product approval.   Instruments  have  lost  utility  for  cash-market  pricing since at least the index-based futures of the 1980s.    Stock index futures do not establish the prices of shares; rather, to the extent stock index futures serve the goals of the CEA, it is because they have hedging utility.  A number of instruments listed since then may  lack  any  appreciable  hedging  utility,  and  thus  represent overreach on the part of the CFTC.

This  Article  does  not  propose  a  means  for  measuring  the hedging utility of an instrument.  It is left to further scholarship, the  CFTC,  or  other  policy  work  to  formulate  a  methodology  for assessing  whether  the  hedging  utility  of  a  product  passes  a  de minimis threshold.  That hedging utility, however, is not abstract. Market  participants  know  why  they  are  purchasing  a  financial product.  And disciplined hedgers track the performance of hedges, producing  records  that  show  the  inverse  correlation  between  a variable of interest (such as revenues or costs) and the performance of the hedge (such as an event contract) for purposes of gauging whether continued use of the instrument to hedge is worthwhile.

In  some  cases,  it  is  clear  that  an  individual  is  purely  a speculator.  For example, in most hands, a contract that settles on the basis of how long an album spends at the top of the Billboard 200 is speculation.  There is no identifiable risk that is being offset. When that individual is a member of the music industry, however, further  analysis  is  required.    Although  there  may  be  some exceptions,  in  most  cases,  the  specific  and  binary  nature  of  the payoff will prevent the contract from having hedging utility-but ultimately, this is an empirical question and evidence consisting of correlation studies should be considered. (Although the example of a contract settling on an album's performance may  be  an  easy  example  of  overreach,  there  are  many  other  questionable contracts.  Even a binary option on the S&amp;P500 reaching a specified level has questionable hedging utility.  This option has no capacity to distinguish between being  significantly  and  only  nominally  in  the  money,  thereby  failing  to neutralize differences of degree in risk manifestation.)

When the derivative is being used by a non-retail audience, the approach to measuring hedging utility is easier.  Firms that hedge with  derivatives  typically  have  dedicated  analyses  to  tracking products' hedging performance.  The CFO of a firm or equivalent would have a thesis in buying a product, and test that thesis over time.    That  thesis  and  its  assessment  can  be  referenced  to understand  whether  and  to  what  extent  a  product  is  useful  for hedging.

The  CFTC  has  access  to  information  as  to  whether  listed derivatives serve either hedging or pricing goals.  The CFTC should obtain that information, review individual products (starting with event contracts), and order the delisting of contracts that fail to sufficiently  support  either  of  the  CEA's  goals.    A  subsidiary question  in  this  analysis  would  be  whether  a  product's  hedging utility  should  be  assessed  in  a  standalone  fashion  or  within  the context of other hedging products; in other words, a product that has hedging utility in the abstract may not have sufficient hedging utility  because  competing products are more adept at managing risk.