Chairman Rostin Benham
Commissioner Kristin N. Johnson
Commissioner Christy Goldsmith Romero
Commissioner Summer K. Mersinger
Commissioner Caroline D. Pham

Commodity Futures Trading Commission Three Lafayette Centre 1155 21st Street, NW Washington, DC 20581

Re: RIN 3038-AF14 - 17 CFR Part 40 Event Contracts

Dear Members of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC):

The Sports Betting Alliance (SBA) appreciates the opportunity to submit public comment on RIN  3038-AF14,  which  concerns  the  types  of  contracts  that  fall  within  the  scope  of Commodity Exchange Act (CEA) section 5c(c)(5)(C) and would classify contracts involving gaming as contrary to the public interest.

SBA is  a  coalition  of  the  leading  sports  betting  operators  in  the  United  States,  including BetMGM, DraftKings, Fanatics, and FanDuel. Although SBA members are competitors in the marketplace, we are united in our commitment to working with U.S. federal, state, and tribal governments to create a viable, successful, and safe sports wagering industry. Given our collective expertise and investment in this industry, we find it imperative to comment on the proposed rule and respectfully object to the Commission's proposed determination that any contracts that involve gaming are categorically contrary to the public interest.

The  rule  in  question  was  enacted  at  a  time  when  the  Professional  and  Amateur  Sports Protection Act (PASPA) forbade states from legalizing sports betting. However, in Murphy v. National Collegiate Athletic Association, No. 16-476, 584 U.S. 453 [138 S. Ct. 1461], the Supreme Court overturned PASPA as unconstitutional. Since PASPA's repeal in 2018, more than 38 states  plus  the  District  of  Columbia  and  Puerto  Rico  have  legalized  and  regulated  sports wagering. This has led to the development of a strictly regulated yet thriving industry that provides consumers with legal protections, combats offshore and unregulated operators, and supports local economies through tax revenue and job creation. Today, more than two-thirds of American adults live in a legal and operational sports betting jurisdiction, with more states likely to follow suit. The widespread impact and prevalence of the sports wagering industry across nearly 40 states and jurisdictions underscore the critical importance of maintaining the stability of its operators and overall ecosystem.

To  that  end,  the  SBA  makes  three  requests  regarding  the  proposed  rule.  First,  the  SBA respectfully requests that the CFTC clarify that the proposed rule is not intended to conflict with gaming activity regulated by the states, in order to prevent any potential destabilization of state-regulated sports betting. Second, the CFTC should confirm that gaming itself is not contrary to the public interest, as demonstrated by the widespread adoption of the activity across the country.

Third, and finally, the Commission should allow for an institutional futures market accessible to licensed sports betting operators. Currently, the proposed rule overlooks the compelling economic purpose that an institutional futures market could serve in allowing operators to hedge commercial risks. Labeling any contracts involving gaming as categorically contrary to the public interest will limit the industry's hedging ability, a move that we believe has not been sufficiently considered by the CFTC. We object to the proposed rule to the extent it forecloses an institutional futures market for this purpose.

We  strongly  advocate  for  meaningful  discussions  between  our  members,  other  relevant companies within the sports wagering and sports industries, and the CFTC. These discussions are  essential  to  address  the  complexities  of  the  industry  and  ensure  that  any  regulatory measures are well informed and balanced. Such collaborative engagement should precede the enactment of broad and categorical rules that may have far-reaching implications.

We respectfully urge the CFTC to refrain from approving this rule in its current form due to its unconditional nature and its potential harm to a multi-billion-dollar industry and the tens of millions of consumers that currently enjoy legal regulated betting on sporting events. We believe that with further examination and open dialogue, a more nuanced approach can be developed that safeguards the public interest while supporting the stability and growth of the regulated sports betting industry.

Thank you for considering our comments. We look forward to the opportunity to engage in constructive discussions with the Commission on this critical issue.

Sincerely,
Jeremy Kudon President, Sports Betting Alliance