By Electronic Submission

August 8, 2024

Christopher Kirkpatrick Secretary Commodity Futures Trading Commission Three Lafayette Centre 1155 21 st Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20581

Re: Event Contracts (RIN 3038-AF14)

## Dear Mr. Kirkpatrick:

Better  Markets (Better Markets is a non-profit, non-partisan, and independent organization founded in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis to promote the public interest in the financial markets, support the financial reform of Wall Street, and make our financial system work for all Americans again. Better Markets works with allies including many in finance-to promote pro-market, pro-business, and pro-growth policies that help build a stronger, safer financial system that protects and promotes  Americans' jobs, savings, retirements, and more.) appreciates  the  opportunity  to  comment  on  the  Commodity  Futures Trading Commission's ('CFTC' or 'Commission') proposed rulemaking (Event Contracts; 89 Fed. Reg. 48968 (June 10, 2024) (Proposed Rulemaking).) ('Proposed Rulemaking'), which aims to provide amendments to its rules concerning event contracts in certain excluded  commodities.  The  CFTC is  proposing  amendments  to  further  specify  types  of  event contracts that fall within the scope of section 5c(c)(5)(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA or the Act) and are contrary to the public interest, such that they may not be listed for trading or accepted for clearing on or through a CFTC-registered entity.

## BACKGROUND

In 2011, the CFTC published final rules under part 40 of its regulations, introducing new §40.11. (Provisions Common to Registered Entities, 76 Fed. Reg. 44776 (July 27, 2011).) This regulation was promulgated under the authority granted by section 5c(c)(5)(C) of the  CEA, (7 U.S.C. § 7a-2(c)(5)(C). The Commodities Exchange Act is codified at 7 U.S.C. § 1 et seq .) which  was  added  by  section  745(b)  of  the  Dodd-Frank  Wall  Street  Reform  and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act). (Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Public Law 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (July 21, 2010).) Section 5c(c)(5)(C) authorizes the CFTC to prohibit certain "event contracts" from being listed or made available for clearing or trading on or through a registered entity, if such contracts involve an activity enumerated in section 5c(c)(5)(C) or other similar activities as determined by the CFTC and if the CFTC determines that such contracts are contrary to the public interest.

Event  contracts,  though  not  defined  in  the  CEA  or  CFTC  regulations,  are  generally understood to be derivative contracts with a binary payoff structure based on the outcome of an underlying occurrence or event. (See Proposed Rulemaking at 48969.) Registered entities seeking to list event contracts for trading or make them available for clearing must comply with the substantive and procedural requirements generally  applicable  to  derivative  contracts.  CFTC-registered  exchanges,  including  Designated Contract Markets (DCMs) and Swap Execution Facilities (SEFs), are required to list or permit trading  only  in  derivative  contracts  that  are  not  readily  susceptible  to  manipulation,  enforce compliance with contract terms, and monitor trading to prevent manipulation, price distortion, and settlement disruption through market surveillance, compliance, and enforcement practices.

In addition to these general requirements, section 5c(c)(5)(C) of the CEA grants the CFTC the authority to prohibit registered entities from listing or making available certain types of event contracts for clearing or trading if they are deemed contrary to the public interest. (7 U.S.C. § 7a-2(c)(5)(C).)

Since 2021, the CFTC has observed a significant increase in the number of event contracts listed for trading by registered exchanges and in the diversity of events underlying these contracts. There  has  also  been  a  notable  rise  in  applications  and  expressions  of  interest  for  exchange registration from entities focused primarily or exclusively on listing event contracts. Historically, CFTC-registered  exchanges  have  listed  various  event  contracts  for  several  decades.  The  first contract market dedicated to trading event contracts was designated on February 18, 2004. (See CFTC Order of Designation for HedgeStreet, Inc. (Feb. 20, 2004), available at https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/opa/press04/opa4894-04.htm.) In 2008, the CFTC published a concept release seeking input on the appropriate regulatory treatment of event contract markets, prompted by numerous requests for guidance on applying the CEA to these markets. Although the CFTC received 31 comments in response, no further action was taken at  that  time. (See Proposed Rulemaking at 48969.) In  2010,  section  745(b)  of  the  Dodd-Frank  Act  clarified  the  CFTC's  regulatory authority over certain event contracts, leading to the adoption of §40.11 in 2011. (See 76 Fed. Reg. 44776 (July 27, 2011).)

## STATUTORY AUTHORITY

Section 5c(c)(5)(C) was added to the CEA by section 745(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act, which broadly amended the contract and rule submission requirements outlined in CEA section 5c(c). During a brief discussion on the Senate floor about the proposed Dodd-Frank Act provision that became CEA section 5c(c)(5)(C), the late Senator Dianne Feinstein and Senator Blanche Lincoln, then-Chair  of  the  Senate  Committee  on  Agriculture,  Nutrition,  and  Forestry  and  one  of  the provision's authors, highlighted its purpose. Senator Lincoln stated that this provision ensures the CFTC has the authority to prevent the creation of futures and swaps markets that enable citizens to profit from catastrophic events and to curb gambling through futures markets. (156 Cong. Rec. S5906-07 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statements of Sen. Diane Feinstein and Sen. Blanche Lincoln), available at www.congress.gov/111/crec/2010/07/15/CREC- 2010-07-15-senate.pdf.)

Under  CEA  section  5c(c)(5)(C)(i),  the  CFTC  may  determine  that  certain  agreements, contracts,  or  transactions  in  excluded  commodities,  based  on  occurrences  or  contingencies (excluding changes in price, rate, value, or levels of a commodity described in section 1a(2)(i)), are contrary to the public interest. This determination can be made if the contracts involve: (I) unlawful activity under any Federal or State law; (II) terrorism; (III) assassination; (IV) war; (V) gaming; or (VI) any other similar activity deemed contrary to the public interest by the CFTC through rule or regulation. (7 U.S.C. § 7a-2(c)(5)(C)(i).)

CEA section 5c(c)(5)(C)(ii) states that any agreement, contract, or transaction found by the CFTC to be contrary to the public interest under section 5c(c)(5)(C)(i) cannot be listed or made available  for  clearing  or  trading  through  a  registered  entity. (7 U.S.C. § 7a-2(c)(5)(C)(ii).) The  CFTC  believes this  section requires  a  two-step  inquiry. (See Proposed Rulemaking at 48970.) First,  the  CFTC  must  determine  if  a  contract  in  an  excluded commodity  involves  an  activity  listed  in  CEA  section  5c(c)(5)(C)(i)(I)-(V)  (an  "Enumerated Activity") or a similar activity prescribed by rule or regulation. If such activity is found, the CFTC must then assess whether the contract is contrary to the public interest. If both conditions are met, the contract cannot be listed or made available for clearing or trading by a registered entity. (See Proposed Rulemaking at 48971.)

## CFTC Regulation 40.11

In 2011, the CFTC adopted Regulation §40.11 to implement CEA section 5c(c)(5)(C) as part of broader changes to the CFTC's Part 40 regulations. CFTC Regulation 40.11(a)(1) stipulates that a registered entity shall not list for trading or accept for clearing any agreement, contract, transaction,  or  swap  based  on  an  excluded  commodity  if  it  involves,  relates  to,  or  references terrorism, assassination, war, gaming, or any activity that is unlawful under State or Federal law. (17 C.F.R. 40.11(a)(1). ) While the order of activities listed in §40.11(a)(1) differs slightly, they correspond to the activities enumerated  in  CEA  sections  5c(c)(5)(C)(i)(I)-(V),  collectively  referred  to  as  the  Enumerated Activities.

In alignment with CEA section 5c(c)(5)(C)(i)(VI), §40.11(a)(2) mandates that a registered entity shall not list for trading or accept for clearing any agreement, contract, transaction, or swap based on an excluded commodity that involves, relates to, or references an activity similar to those enumerated in §40.11(a)(1), which the CFTC determines, by rule or regulation, to be contrary to the public interest. (17 C.F.R. 40.11(a)(2). ) To date, the CFTC has not made any such determinations.

According to §40.11(c), if a contract submitted by a registered entity under §40.2 or §40.3 may involve, relate to, or reference an activity enumerated in §§40.11(a)(1) or (2), the CFTC is authorized  to  commence  a  90-day  review  of  the  contract. (17 C.F.R. 40.11(c). ) The  CFTC  must  issue  an  order approving or disapproving the contract by the end of the 90-day review period or any extended period agreed to or requested by the registered entity. (17 CFR 40.11(c)(2). ) During this review period, §40.11(c)(1) requires the CFTC to request the registered entity suspend the listing or trading of the contract. Additionally, the CFTC must post a notification of the intent to conduct a 90-day review on its website.

In the 2011 adopting release for the rule, the CFTC did not define any of the Enumerated Activities. It acknowledged a comment on the rule proposal that the term "gaming" should be further defined to enhance clarity regarding the scope of the prohibition set forth in §40.11(a)(1). (See 76 Fed. Reg. 44776, 454785 (July 27, 2011).) The CFTC agreed with interest in defining "gaming" for this prohibition and indicated that it might issue a future event contracts rulemaking to address the appropriate treatment of event contracts involving  gaming. (Id. 22 Id.) Meanwhile,  the  CFTC  determined  to  adopt  the  prohibition  set  forth  in §40.11(a)(1) concerning the Enumerated Activities and to consider individual product submissions on a case-by-case basis under §40.2 or §40.3. (Id)

## PRIOR CFTC APPROACHES

Historically, the CFTC has permitted binary event contracts only under limited and tightly controlled conditions. In 1993, CFTC staff issued a no-action letter to the Iowa Electronic Markets ('IEM'),  an  academic  prediction  market  run  by  the  University  of  Iowa's  Tippie  College  of Business in conjunction with several other universities. 23 Among the event contracts available for trading on the IEM are political event contracts regarding partisan control of the United States Congress. The CFTC's staff no-action letter allowed the IEM to continue offering its political event  contracts,  but  with  several  restrictions.  First,  the  no-action  was  premised  on  the  IEM's academic purpose and operation as a non-profit entity. Second, neither the IEM nor the University of Iowa charges any commissions or receives a return in connection with its operation, and IEM does not realize a financial profit or suffer loss as a result of the transactions.

In December 2011, the North American Derivatives Exchange ('NADEX') submitted a proposal to the CFTC seeking approval of five new political event contracts relating to the political control of the United States Congress and the Presidency. (U.S.  COMMODITIES  FUTURES  COMMISSION, CFTC  Commences  90-day  Review  of  NADEX's  Proposed Political Event Derivatives Contracts (Jan. 5, 2012), https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/PressReleases/616312.) On April 2, 2012, the CFTC issued an order ('Nadex Order') prohibiting NADEX from listing its proposed political event contracts. (U.S.  COMMODITIES  FUTURES  COMMISSION, Order  Prohibiting  the  Listing  or  Trading  of  Political  Event Contracts , https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/stellent/groups/public/@rulesandproducts/documents/ifdocs/nadexo rder040212.pdf.) In its order, the CFTC found that the contracts, which would have paid out based upon the outcome of US federal elections, 'involved[] gaming' and were contrary to the public interest under CEA Section 5c(c)(5)(C)(i).

In 2014, the CFTC staff issued a no-action letter to PredictIt, operated by researchers at the Victoria University of Wellington, allowing its political event contracts to operate in the United States provided that it met certain conditions. In August 2022, however, the CFTC staff informed PredictIt that it had violated the no-action letter, that it was withdrawing the no-action letter, and instructed the company to wind down its operation of the political event contracts by February 2023. (U.S. COMMODITIES FUTURES COMMISSION, CFTC Staff Withdraws No-Action Letter to Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand Regarding a Not-For-Profit Market for Certain Event Contracts (Aug. 4, 2022), https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/PressReleases/8567-22.)

On December 23, 2020, the CFTC began a 90-day review of specific event contracts self certified  by  Eris  Exchange, LLC (ErisX). These contracts were based on the money line, point spread,  and total points  for individual NFL games. (See CFTC Release No. 8345-20, CFTC Announces Review of RSBIX NFL Futures Contracts Proposed by Eris Exchange, LLC (Dec. 23, 2020), available at https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/PressReleases/8345-20) On August 26, 2022, the CFTC initiated another 90-day review, this time for certain Congressional control event contracts submitted by KalshiEX LLC (Kalshi) for approval. (See CFTC Release No. 8578-22, CFTC Announces Review and Public Comment Period of KalshiEx Proposed Congressional Control Contracts Under CFTC Regulation 40.11, available at https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/PressReleases/8578-22.) In both instances, the submitting parties withdrew their respective  contracts  from  consideration  before  the  CFTC  could  issue  a  final  determination pursuant to §40.11.

Finally,  on  June  23,  2023,  the  CFTC  commenced  a  90-day  review  under  §40.11(c)  of certain event contracts self-certified by Kalshi that were based on which political party controlled each chamber of Congress. (See CFTC Release No. 8728-23, CFTC Announces Review of Kalshi Congressional Control Contracts and Public Comment Period (June 23, 2023), available at https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/PressReleases/872823.) On September 22, 2023, the CFTC issued an order ('Kalshi Order') prohibiting these contracts from being listed or made available for clearing or trading. The CFTC found that the contracts involved the Enumerated Activities of gaming, and an activity unlawful under State law, and that the contracts were contrary to the public interest. (See CFTC Release No. 8780-23, CFTC Disapproves KalshiEX LLC's Congressional Control Contracts (Sept. 22, 2023), available at https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/PressReleases/8780-23.) This order is currently under judicial review in the District Court for the District of Columbia. (KalshiEx LLC v. Commodity Futures Trading Commission , 1:23-cv-03257 (filed Nov. 1, 2023) (D.D.C.).)

## COMMENTS

## I. The  Proposed  Rulemaking  Correctly  Aligns  with  CEA  Section  5c(c)(5)(C)  by Removing the Terms "Relate To" and "Reference" and Referring Only to Event Contracts that "Involve" an Enumerated Activity.

The proposed amendments to §40.11 properly aim to align the regulation's language more closely with the statutory text of CEA section 5c(c)(5)(C). (See Proposed Rulemaking at 48973.) The CFTC's proposal to remove the terms "relate to" and "reference" and focus solely on event contracts that "involve" an Enumerated Activity or prescribed similar activity is appropriate. CEA section 5c(c)(5)(C) applies to event contracts in certain excluded commodities that "involve" one of the Enumerated Activities or a prescribed similar activity. By focusing on contracts that "involve" an Enumerated Activity, the proposed amendments will enhance regulatory precision and ensure that the CFTC's prohibition authority is the same as the statutory language.

The proposed amendments reaffirm the CFTC's prohibition authority and the standard of review applicable to event contracts under §40.11. (Id.) This alignment with the statutory text of CEA section 5c(c)(5)(C) is also consistent with the determinations made by the CFTC in the Kalshi Order and the Nadex Order, which evaluated whether the event contracts in question "involved" an Enumerated Activity. (See Kalshi Order at 5-7; Nadex Order at 2.) The proposed changes are not intended to alter the scope of the CFTC's prohibition authority or the nature of its analysis in determining whether a particular event contract falls within the ambit of CEA section 5c(c)(5)(C) and §40.11.

The term "involve" is not defined in the CEA, so the CFTC applies its ordinary meaning. Definitions of "involve" include "to relate to or affect," "to relate closely," "to entail," or "to have as  an  essential  feature  or  consequence." (See Proposed Rulemaking at 48973.) This  interpretation  ensures  that  the  regulation  can effectively address contracts that, while not directly based on an Enumerated Activity, still bear a significant connection to such activities.

The full text of CEA section 5c(c)(5)(C)(i) clarifies that a contract "involves" more than just  its  underlying  event.  Where  the  CEA  specifies  a  contract's  underlying,  it  uses  the  term "underlying"  or  refers  to  what  the  contract  is  "based  on"  or  "based  upon." (Id.) CEA  section 5c(c)(5)(C)(i) section uses both "based upon" and "involve," showing a distinction between the two. This section applies to agreements, contracts, transactions, or swaps in excluded commodities based  upon  the  occurrence,  extent  of  an  occurrence,  or  contingency,  meaning  the  contract's underlying must be an event. It then states that "such agreements, contracts, or transactions" must "involve" an Enumerated Activity or prescribed similar activity. In this context, "based upon" refers  to  the  underlying,  requiring  only  that  it  be  an  event,  while  "involve"  retains  its  broader ordinary meaning and refers to the agreements, contracts, or transactions as a whole.

Thus, Congress's use of the term "involve" in section 5c(c)(5)(C) indicates that the law covers event contracts not only when their underlying is an Enumerated Activity but also when they have a significant connection to such activities.

The  legislative  history  of  CEA  section  5c(c)(5)(C)  supports  the  plain  meaning  of  the statutory  text.  Senator  Lincoln  stated  that  CEA  section  5c(c)(5)(C)  was  intended  to  "prevent gambling through futures markets" and to restrict derivatives exchanges from constructing event contracts around sporting events such as the Super Bowl, the Kentucky Derby, and the Masters Golf Tournament. (See 156 Cong. Rec. S5906-07 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statements of Sen. Diane Feinstein and Sen. Blanche Lincoln).) None of these events are, themselves, "gaming." Rather, Senator Lincoln's statement,  who is  identified  as  one  of  the  authors  of  CEA  section  5c(c)(5)(C),  focuses  on  the overall characteristics of the contract. As noted in the Nadex Order and the Kalshi Order, this legislative history supports the plain meaning of the term "involve" and indicates that the question for the CFTC in evaluating whether a contract "involves" an Enumerated Activity or prescribed similar activity is whether the contract, considered as a whole, involves one of those activities. (See Nadex Order at 2; Kalshi Order at 7.)

## II. The Proposed Rulemaking Definition of Gaming, which includes, among other things, the Staking or Risking by any Person of Something of Value Upon the Outcome of a Political Contest, Is Correct.

The Proposed Rulemaking's definition of "gaming" is within §40.11, and is aligned with the statutory text of CEA section 5c(c)(5)(C). (See Proposed Rulemaking 48974.)

Although 'gaming' is not defined in either the CEA or CFTC regulation, the proposed definition is consistent with the CFTC's interpretation of the term ''gaming'' in the Nadex Order and  the  Kalshi  Order. (See Nadex Order at 2-3; Kalshi Order at 8-10.) The  Proposed  Rulemaking  recognizes  that  the  terms  ''gaming''  and ''gambling''  are  used  interchangeably  in  common  usage  and  dictionary  definitions. (See Proposed Rulemaking 48975.) The Proposed Rulemaking also recognizes that under several state statutes, ''gambling,'' ''betting,'' or ''wagering'' is recognized to include a person staking or risking something of value upon a game or contest, or the performance of competitors in a game or contest. (Id.) Moreover, the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act defines the terms 'bet or wager' as:

' the staking or risking by any person of something of value upon the outcome of a  contest  of  others ,  a  sporting  event,  or  a  game  subject  to  chance,  upon  an agreement  or  understanding  that  the  person  or  another  person  will  receive something of value in the event of a certain outcome.' (31 U.S.C. § 5362(1)(A) (emphasis added); see also Christine Hurt, Regulating Public Morals and Private Markets: Online Securities Trading, Internet Gambling and the Speculation Paradox , 86 B.U. L. R ᴇᴠ . 371 (2006); Dave Aron &amp; Matt Jones, States' Big Gamble on Sports Betting , 12 UNLV GAMING L. J. 53, 67-86, 71 (2021) (discussing the CEA's application to event contracts).)

Therefore,  the  Proposed  Rulemaking  appropriately  defines  'gaming'  within  §40.11  by focusing  on  the  staking  or  risking  of  something  valuable  on  a  contest  or  game,  including  the outcomes, competitor performances, or related events. This approach aligns with state and federal definitions of "gambling," "betting," and "wagering." This definition is also consistent with the intent of the drafters of CEA section 5c(c)(5)(C). Senator Lincoln emphasized that the provision aimed to ensure the CFTC could "prevent gambling through futures markets." (See 156 Cong. Rec. S5906-07 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statement of Sen. Blanche Lincoln).)

Thus, the Proposed Rulemaking is proposing to define ''gaming'' to include the staking or risking of something of value on a contingent event in connection with a game or contest. (See Proposed Rulemaking at 48975.) This would be considered just as much a wager or bet as staking or risking something on the outcome of the game or contest itself.

The Proposed Rulemaking also includes a non-exclusive list of examples of activities that constitute "gaming." This list is crucial for providing additional guidance to registered entities and market participants. It includes staking or risking something of value upon: (i) the outcome of a political contest, including an election or elections; (ii) the outcome of an awards contest; (iii) the outcome of a game in which one or more athletes compete; or (iv) an occurrence or non-occurrence in connection with such a contest or game, regardless of whether it directly affects the outcome. (Id .) This illustrative list ensures that the scope of the definition remains clear and comprehensive.

The Proposed Rulemaking makes it clear that its proposed definition of ''gaming'' would not have applicability beyond the CFTC's administration of CEA section 5c(c)(5)(C) and §40.11. (Id .)

## A. Political Event Contracts Fall Within the Definition of Gaming

As  Better  Markets  has  detailed  in  its  previous  comment  letter  to  the  CFTC  regarding Kalshi's proposed political event contract (Better Markets, Comment Letter to CFTC re KalshiEx, LLC's Proposed Political Event Contract (July 24, 2023) available at https://bettermarkets.org/wpcontent/uploads/2023/07/Better_Markets_Comment_Letter_CFTC_Kalshi_Congressional_Control_Contra cts.pdf.) and Better Markets' amicus brief, (Better Markets, Amicus Brief in KalshiEx LLC v. CFTC (March 4, 2024), available at https://bettermarkets.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/Better_Markets_Amicus_Brief_CFTC_Kalshi-3.4.24.pdf.) the facts, law, and policy  fully  support  the  inclusion  of  political  contests,  such  as  elections,  in  the  definition  of gaming. (See Proposed Rulemaking at 48975.) Political event contracts are gaming and involve gaming within the meaning of the CEA. They fall squarely under the Proposed Rulemaking's regulatory prohibition, as authorized under the CEA. A political event contract is a binary (all-or-nothing) event contract whose payoff is contingent upon an election. Participants in such political prediction markets place a sum of money at risk, with the payout based on the market's assessment of the probability of each outcome. If a participant  'predicts'  correctly,  they  are  rewarded  monetarily.  Conversely,  if  they  predict incorrectly, their position will lose monetary value.

While some may contend that political event contracts cannot be or involve 'gaming' because prediction markets contain an element of skill as opposed to mere chance, the statutory definition of 'bet or wager' lists 'a game subject to chance' as one of several examples, not a necessary  element.  That  political  prediction  markets  may  contain  an  element  of  skill  -  i.e., informational or predictive superiority - makes them no more distinct from gaming than does a professional poker player's expertise make their profession distinct from gambling. Both at the blackjack table and in a prediction market, skill may aid participants. But in both cases, significant elements of uncertainty and chance, which are beyond the control of the participants, dominate the endeavor, rendering that activity one that involves 'gaming' under the CEA (See Ryan  P.  McCarthy, Information Markets as Games of Chance ,  155 U. PA. L. REV. 749, 770  (2007); Thomas Lee Hazen, Disparate Regulatory Schemes for Parallel Activities: Securities Regulation, Derivatives Regulation,  Gambling,  and  Insurance ,  24  ANN.  REV.  BANKING  &amp;  FIN.  L.  375,  401-12,  416-18  (2005) (comparing investing, hedging, insurance, and gambling as risk-taking activities).)

The CFTC's recognition that the terms "gaming" and "gambling" are used interchangeably in common usage and statutory definitions is critical and correct. This approach ensures that the definition remains practical and applicable across different contexts and jurisdictions. Furthermore, by defining "gaming" to focus on the staking or risking of something of value upon a  contest  or  game,  the  CFTC  provides  a  clear  and  precise  framework  for  enforcement.  This framework will help prevent event contracts that could undermine market integrity and public confidence.

## III. The Proposed Rulemaking Inclusion of Hedging and Price-Basing Utility as Essential Factors in Evaluating Contracts Aligns with CEA Section 5c(c)(5)(C), Enhancing the CFTC's Ability to Make Categorical Public Interest Determinations.

While CEA section 5c(c)(5)(C) requires the CFTC to determine whether a contract that involves an Enumerated Activity is contrary to the public interest in order for that contract to be prohibited from being listed or made available for clearing or trading, the statute does not require this public interest determination to be made on a contract-specific basis. (7 U.S.C. § 7a-2(c)(5)(C).) The CFTC is fully authorized  to  make  broader,  category-wide  decisions  if  it  finds  that  all  contracts  involving  a particular  activity  are  against  the  public  interest. (See Proposed Rulemaking 48978.) The  Proposed  Rulemaking  would  change §40.11(a)(1) to state that all event contracts involving activities like 'gaming' are, as a group, against the public interest and therefore cannot be listed for trading or clearing. (Id.) In the past, the CFTC has reviewed each contract individually to determine its impact on public interest. If the Proposed  Rulemaking  is  approved,  the  CFTC  would  no  longer  need  to  review  each  contract individually but would simply check if it falls into one of the banned categories. This approach provides  much-needed  consistency  and  clarity.  It  will  also  significantly  reduce  the  need  for individual  contract  reviews  thereby  enhancing  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  regulatory oversight.

Additionally, the factors considered by the Proposed Rulemaking in evaluating whether a contract or category of contracts is contrary to the public interest are appropriate. (See Proposed Rulemaking 48980.) Specifically, the focus on hedging and price-basing utility, threats to national security, and the potential for contracts to involve manipulative activity or profit from harm to persons or groups are pertinent and necessary considerations.

The legislative history underscores the importance of these factors. (156 Cong. Rec. S5906 (daily ed. July 15, 2010) (statements of Sen. Diane Feinstein and Sen. Blanche Lincoln).) The intent to broadly define 'public interest' to include the predominant use of contracts by speculators rather than for commercial producers or purchasers or commercial hedging purposes is a crucial guideline. The recognition that certain contracts may threaten national security or the public good further justifies the need for a categorical approach in prohibiting such contracts.

Moreover, the CFTC will consider all relevant factors in evaluating whether a contract, or category of contracts, is contrary to the public interest, and no single factor will be determinative in  the  CFTC's  evaluation.  This  comprehensive  approach  is  appropriate  because  it  ensures  a thorough and balanced assessment. In addition to hedging utility, price-basing utility, and threats to national security or other threats to the public good, the CFTC will also consider: (i) the extent to  which  the  contract,  or  category  of  contracts,  would  draw  the  into  areas  outside  its  primary regulatory remit; (ii) whether characteristics of the contract or category of contracts, may increase the risk of manipulative activity relating to the trading or pricing of the contract; and (iii) whether the contract or category of contracts could result in market participants profiting from harm to any person or group of persons. (See Proposed Rulemaking 48980.) It's clear that these additional factors are important public interest factors. The factors informing a public interest determination, and the weight given to each, will vary  depending  on  the  specific  characteristics  of  the  contract,  or  category  of  contracts,  under evaluation.  This  flexible  approach  allows  for  nuanced  decision-making  that  appropriately addresses the complexities of different contracts.

## A. Event Contracts that Involve 'Gaming' Are Contrary to the Public Interest

The CFTC's proposal amends §40.11(a)(1) to include a determination that any contract that  involves  ''gaming,''  as  defined  in  the  Proposed  Rulemaking,  is  contrary  to  the  public interest. (See Proposed Rulemaking 48981.) The Proposed Rulemaking states that the economic impact of events related to contests or games of skill or chance-including their outcomes-is generally too diffuse and unpredictable to result in direct and quantifiable changes in the prices of commodities or financial assets. (Id.) This limits if not eliminates entirely the hedging and price-basing utility of event contracts involving such occurrences. This is appropriate because it highlights the speculative nature of these contracts, which are more likely to be used for gambling rather than for legitimate hedging or price discovery purposes.

The  CFTC's  view  that  these  contracts  are  traded  primarily  for  entertainment,  with participants staking something of value on the outcome of a contest or game, is clearly correct. Such contracts are likely to be used predominantly by speculators without a commercial or hedging interest and cannot be reasonably expected to serve as effective hedging tools.

Even  though  some  individuals  or  entities  might  experience  more  direct  economic consequences from specific occurrences in contests or games, the CFTC believes that this group is small compared to the broader universe of market participants, including retail traders, who are most  likely  to  engage  in  these  contracts  for  entertainment. (See Proposed Rulemaking 48982.) This  distinction  is  crucial  for maintaining market integrity. Moreover, individuals or entities with a direct economic stake in these events might have access to inside information or influence, raising concerns about market manipulation. (Id.) For  example,  a  professional  athlete  or  coach  could  use  privileged  information about their team to trade event contracts or manipulate the market. The CFTC's efforts to address these manipulation risks are necessary and appropriate.

Also, contracts classified as "gaming" typically lack an underlying cash market with bona fide economic transactions to provide reliable price information. Instead, they rely on unregulated and opaque sources, increasing the risk of manipulation and decreasing the ability of exchanges and the CFTC to detect such activity. This lack of transparency and regulation is a significant concern. Allowing such contracts on CFTC-regulated markets could also blur the lines between gambling and financial  instruments,  potentially misleading  retail  investors  about  the  nature  of these  contracts.  This  could  improperly  suggest  that  these  contracts  are  suitable  for  investment purposes or that derivative markets are appropriate venues for gambling.

Furthermore, gambling in the United States is overseen by state regulators with specific expertise  and  legal  frameworks  designed  to  address  gambling-related  risks  and  concerns.  The CFTC is  not  a  gaming  regulator  and  does  not  have  the  mandate,  experience,  or  expertise  to regulate, oversee, and police gambling activities. The CFTC should not expend its very limited resources on regulating gambling, as this is beyond its statutory authority.

## B. Political Event Contracts Are Contrary to the Public Interest

The Proposed Rulemaking highlights the unique public interest concerns related to event contracts  involving  political  contests (See Proposed Rulemaking 48983.).  Allowing  such  contracts  could  create  incentives  to manipulate  election  outcomes  or  perceptions,  undermining  election  integrity.  The  CFTC's proposal to amend §40.11(a)(1) properly recognizes that contracts involving gaming and political events  pose  significant  risks  to  public  interest,  market  integrity,  and  investor  protection.  The Proposed Rulemaking aligns with the CFTC's mandate to regulate financial markets effectively while preventing the misuse of derivatives for speculative or manipulative purposes.

Political event contracts are contrary to the public interest in multiple ways. First, they cannot consistently or reliably serve either of the core public interest functions of the derivatives markets, namely hedging against price risk and enabling price discovery (or price basing). Second, political  event  contracts  threaten  affirmative  harm  to  the  public  interest  by  undermining  the integrity of congressional elections, fostering market manipulation, and inappropriately casting the CFTC in the role of election regulator. (See Better Markets, Amicus Brief in KalshiEx LLC v. CFTC (March 4, 2024))

## 1. Political Event Contracts do not serve a meaningful hedging or price discovery function.

The legislative history of CEA Section 5c(c)(5)(C) makes clear Congress's intent to restore the economic purpose test that was used by the CFTC to determine whether a contract was contrary to the public interest pursuant to CEA Section 5(g) prior to its deletion by the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000. The restored economic purpose test calls for an evaluation of an event contract's utility for hedging and price discovery purposes. The unpredictability of the specific, concrete economic consequences of an election (or change in partisan control of Congress) means that the political event contracts cannot reasonably be expected to be used for hedging purposes. The  political  event  contracts'  prices  could  not  form  the  basis  for  the  pricing  of  a  commercial transaction involving a physical commodity, financial asset or service, which demonstrates that the political event contracts have no price-basing utility.

A political party's control of the chambers of Congress does not have sufficiently 'direct, predictable, or quantifiable economic consequences' for political event contracts 'to serve as an effective hedging mechanism.' (See Kalshi Order at 15.) Control of a chamber of Congress may ultimately have economic effects, but those eventual impacts are 'both diffuse and unpredictable.' (See Kalshi Order at 16.) Too many events and variables intervene between a political party's control of Congress and the implementation of a given  policy  with  economic  repercussions.  History  is  littered  with  innumerable  examples  of campaign promises, however genuine, being utterly meaningless once a person or party is elected or in control of one or both houses of Congress. As the old saying goes, 'too many in this town mistake majority for control.'  Partisan majorities do not mean control and neither majorities nor control mean that some specific legislative item or agenda will pass even one, never mind both Houses of Congress, much less be signed by a President and become law.

Opponents of the Proposed Rulemaking may attempt to prove the hedging capabilities of political  event  contracts  by  citing  examples  of  what  they  may  contend  are  the  economic consequences  of  elections,  including,  for  example,  changes  in  stock  prices  experienced  by renewable energy companies, tobacco stocks, and others that appear to have been correlated with election outcomes. But such anecdotal 'evidence,' in a realm so fraught with complexity and an abundance of possible causes, is undeserving of any weight. Moreover, political event contracts are not valid hedging tools as an analysis in the New York Times demonstrated. (Jeff Sommer, Let the Pros Play With the 'Trump (or Harris) Trade' , NEW YORK TIMES (July 26, 2024), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/26/business/trump-trade-stock-market-electionharris.html?smid=nytcore-ios-share&amp;referringSource=articleShare.) The performance of stocks like private prisons and gun companies demonstrates that politically motivated bets are at best misguided and at worse just plain wrong. For example, despite expectations, private prison stocks did not perform consistently under the Trump administration and showed unexpected gains during Biden's term. (Id.) Similarly, energy and gun stocks did not align with anticipated political outcomes, indicating that presidential policies have less influence on specific market sectors than commonly  believed. (Id.) This  unpredictability  provides  yet  more  evidence  that  political  event contracts are unreliable and inappropriate for hedging purposes.

From  a  regulatory  perspective,  the  CFTC's  mandate  is  to  oversee  commodity  and derivatives markets, making sure they function effectively for hedging and price discovery. That ensures that vitally important commodities are available to the American people when they want them, in the amounts they want, and at prices that reasonably reflect supply and demand. Whether the CFTC does that job well or poorly impacts everything from cereal and coffee at breakfast, bread and peanut butter in lunch sandwiches, gas for cars and trucks, cotton for shirts and skirts, and  sugar  in  almost  everything.  In  contrast,  political  event  contracts  offer  no  such  significant hedging  benefits  and  do  not  contribute  to  price  discovery.  Instead,  they  represent  speculative gambling that falls outside the CFTC's regulatory expertise, experience, and purview, and will detract the CFTC from its primary mission. By focusing on commodities that impact everyday life, such as agricultural products and energy resources, the CFTC can continue to serve and protect the American people.

Additionally, the CFTC is already underfunded and struggling to fulfill its current statutory mandates. Introducing significant new and unrelated duties, such as overseeing political event contracts, would further strain its limited resources. This shift in focus goes against Congressional intent and undermines the agency's ability to regulate essential commodity and derivatives markets effectively.  The  CFTC  should  prioritize  its  existing  responsibilities  to  ensure  the  stability  and integrity of markets that directly affect the daily lives of Americans, rather than diverting attention and resources to speculative markets outside its core mission.

## 2. Political Event Contracts would threaten election integrity.

The Proposed Rulemaking correctly categorized political event contracts as event contracts contrary to the public interest because election gambling fundamentally cheapens the sanctity of our democratic process. Political bets change the motivations behind each vote, replacing political convictions with financial calculations. Allowing billionaires to wager extraordinary bets while simultaneously  contributing  to  a  specific  candidate  or  party,  and  political  insiders  to  bet  on elections using non-public information, will further degrade public trust in the electoral process.

Elected officials rely not only on free and fair elections to engender faith in the outcomes of  elections,  but  elections  are  the  foundation  of  American  democracy.  Gambling  on  elections would create very powerful incentives for bad actors, or even those just looking to make a quick buck, to interfere with our elections and try to sway voters outside of the democratic process. For example, it is easy to imagine how AI or social media might be manipulated to quickly circulate false and misleading information within hours or days of an election that could move enough votes to change the election's results.

As Bloomberg News reported on July 12, 2023, 'AI is making politics easier, cheaper and more dangerous,' including:

'AI  holds  the  potential  to  supercharge  the  dissemination  of  misinformation  in political campaigns.  The technology is capable of quickly creating 'deepfakes,' fake  pictures  and  videos  that  some  political  operatives  predict  will  soon  be indistinguishable from real ones, enabling miscreants to literally put words in their opponents' mouths.  Deepfakes have plagued politics for years, but with AI, savvy editing skills are no longer required to create them.' (Emily Birnbaum and Laura Davison, AI Is Making Politics Easier, Cheaper and More Dangerous, Voters are already seeing AI-generated campaign materials - and likely don't know it, (July 11, 2023), https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2023-07-11/chatgpt-ai-boom-makes-political-dirty-trickseasier-and-cheaper?srnd=premium&amp;sref=mQvUqJZj)

As a result, deepfake videos are already being deployed to impact voters, as Bloomberg pointed out:

'In March [2023], an anonymous Twitter user posted an altered video that went viral,  purporting to show Biden verbally attacking transgender people.  Another one, circulate widely by a right-wing US pundit, appeared to show Biden ordering a nuclear attack on Russia and sending troops to Ukraine.' (Id.)

Allowing gambling on elections will make the dangers of AI and interference in elections much worse,  more  likely,  and  gravely  consequential.    Given  the  current  environment  where  many Americans already question the integrity of U.S. elections, this would be adding fuel to the fire at the worst possible time.

Whether  through  mere  perception  or  other  means,  there  is  little  doubt  that  the  mass commodification of our democratic process would raise widespread concerns about the integrity of our electoral process. Putting aside the significant issues of whether such markets could inspire vote-switching, intensify the widespread deployment of misinformation using state-of-the-art AI, and other nefarious conduct, the mere impact on the public's perception of our democracy is cause enough to conclude that it is decidedly not in the public interest. Elections are supposed and must reflect the will and votes of the voters, not risk being influenced by those who only care about winning a bet, voters be damned.

The 2024 UK election scandal should serve as a cautionary tale about the risks of allowing election  gambling. (Max Colchester, British Politicians Are Betting-On Their Own Elections , The Wall Street Journal (July 1, 2024) available at https://www.wsj.com/world/uk/gambling-flutters-scandal-british-election114373bb?st=cj7drbrvcqd9t9k&amp;reflink=desktopwebshare_permalink.) In  this  case,  several  individuals  close  to  Prime  Minister  Rishi  Sunak, including political aides and police officers, are being investigated for placing bets on the election date just before the Prime Minister publicly announced it. This raised serious concerns about the use of insider information for financial gain.

The  allegations  suggested  that  those  with  privileged  knowledge  of  the  election  timing might have used this information to profit from bets placed on the election date. Such actions not only distorted the betting market but also undermined the integrity of the electoral process itself. The  scandal  highlights  how  election  gambling  can  incentivize  individuals  to  exploit  insider information or even attempt to influence the election outcome for personal financial gain.

Another cautionary tale that hits closer to home is the case of Sean McElwee, a political data analyst and pollster who co-founded Data for Progress. McElwee faced scrutiny after it was revealed  that  he  allegedly  used  inside  information  to  place  bets  on  political  outcomes. (Ben Terris, The Washington Gambler , The New York Times (April 26, 2023) available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/lifestyle/2023/04/26/sean-mcelwee-washington-gambler/.) This controversy surfaced following the 2022 midterm elections, raising alarms about the potential for individuals with privileged access to election data to manipulate betting markets for personal gain.

Unfortunately, this incident also contributes to the growing sentiment among Americans that the U.S. used to be a good example of democracy. (Janell Fetterolf, Sofia Hernandez Ramones, 72% of Americans say the U.S. used to be a good example of democracy, but isn't anymore , Pew Research Center (July 10, 2024) available at https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2024/07/10/72-of-americans-say-the-us-used-to-be-a-goodexample-of-democracy-but-isnt-anymore/.)

## 3. Political Event Contracts would pose serious threats to investors .

The CFTC's Proposed Rulemaking banning all political election contracts is appropriate and necessary. Political election contracts would fundamentally distort the primary purposes of the futures markets - aiding hedging and price discovery for commercial enterprises - by opening the door to a surge of retail traders entering an inherently speculative market, thereby increasing the risk of substantial losses. (See supra notes Error! Bookmark not defined. -Error! Bookmark not defined. , Error! Bookmark not def ined. and accompanying text.) Political election contracts would further contribute to the trend toward the  'gamification'  and  'retailization'  of  finance.  In  this  increasingly  common  pattern, everyday consumers and investors are lured into new financial products and services, justified by claims that the offerings represent beneficial 'democratization' and 'innovation.' Yet as we have seen again and again-with the 'digital engagement practices' that fueled the meme stock frenzy, and  even  more  so  in  the  market  for  cryptocurrencies-the  result  is  typically  massive  wealth accumulation  for  a  few  sponsors  and  issuers  and  massive  losses  suffered  by  the  majority  of investors. (See generally Dennis M. Kelleher, Jason Grimes, and Andres Chovil, Securities-Democratizing Equity Markets  With  And  Without  Exploitation:  Robinhood,  Gamestop,  Hedge  Funds,  Gamification,  High Frequency Trading, And More , 44 W. NEW ENG. L. REV. 51 (2022).)

Widespread gambling on our elections through the simple click of a button is far removed from the purpose, function, and importance of the electoral processes. Such activities undermine the  sanctity  and  democratic  value  of  elections,  turning  them  into  speculative  spectator  sports. Chair Behnam statements regarding the new and entirely different role the CFTC would have to assume if political contracts were allowed are entirely accurate and a cautionary warning. (Tracey Alloway and Joe Weisenthal, Transcript: CFTC Chair Rostin Behnam on the Fight to Regulate Crypto, A live Odd Lots interview from the ISDA annual meeting, (May 18, 2023), https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-05-18/transcript-cftc-chair-rostin-behnam-on-the-fight-toregulate-crypto?sref=mQvUqJZj stating, 'Imagine a situation where we have alleged fraud or alleged manipulation of an election and someone coming to the CFTC and say, "You know, you have a contract listed on an election in, you know, X district in Y state, and we believe there was fraud, because of hardware, software, news, you name it.' Right? "You need to police that fraud." So without being too indirect, what I'm trying to say is the CFTC could end up being an election cop, and I don't think that's what Congress meant or intended for us to do. And I think that raises for me personally, and I can't speak for the commission or my colleagues, a lot of legal questions and policy questions about whether or not you would want a financial regulator that's very interesting policing elections.')

The  futures  markets  were  not  established  as  a  new  type  of  casino  but  to  facilitate  the provision of essential goods to Americans by enabling commercial entities to manage the price risk associated with their productive commercial activities. (See generally Christine Hurt, Regulating Public Morals and Private Markets: Online Securities Trading, Internet Gambling and the Speculation Paradox , 86 B.U. L. R ᴇᴠ . 371 (2006).) Given what is at stake, we urge the CFTC to finalize the Proposed Rulemaking without delay.

## CONCLUSION

We hope these comments are helpful as the CFTC finalizes the Proposed Rulemaking. Sincerely,

Cantrell Dumas

Director of Derivatives Policy Better Markets, Inc. 2000 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Suite 4008 Washington, DC 20008 cdumas@bettermarkets.org http://www.bettermarkets.org