September 22, 2022

Mr. Christopher Kirkpatrick, Secretary Commodity Futures Trading Commission Three Lafayette Center 1155 21 Street NW Washington, DC 20581

Re: Comments in Response to the Commission's Request for Comment on KalshiEx, LLC's Proposed Event Contracts

## Dear Commissioners:

We  greatly  appreciate  this  opportunity  to  comment  on  the  political  event  contracts ( Contracts )  that  our  client  KalshiEx,  LLC,  a  designated  contract  market,  submitted  to  the Commodity  Futures  Trading  Commission  for  approval  on  July  19,  2022.  The  Commission determined to solicit public input regarding the Contracts on August 26, 2022, by posting to its website 17 questions about them ( Questions ). As always, the Commission should be applauded for  its  measured  and  deliberate  approach  to  considering  matters,  like  the  Contracts,  that  are significant to the development and growth of financial markets.

As  a  Firm,  we  have  worked  for  decades  to  assist  financial  institutions,  operating companies,  and  investment  funds  with  all  manner  of  transactional,  litigation,  and  regulatory matters involving the derivatives markets. This experience is enhanced by our colleagues who have enjoyed the privilege of serving on the Commission Staff and our more recent experience representing fintech companies.

We greatly respect the Commission as an institution that serves the public interest, as well as the professional staff who work tirelessly to pursue that end. Former employees of all three branches of the federal government are well represented at the Firm. So we can appreciate the effort it requires for the Commission to focus on specific issues like this one, given the heavy workload that it carries in effecting Congressional rulemaking mandates while seeking to ensure market integrity, to protect customers and investors, and to enforce the law in cases where it may have been violated.

With our esteem for the agency in mind, and in full candor, we respectfully submit that the Commission is taking the wrong approach to evaluating the Contracts, in the following respects:
- It is wrong to review the Contracts under Regulation 40.11.
- It is wrong to suggest, as the Questions do, that the Contracts must be shown to have  an  'economic  purpose'  like  hedging  or  price  basing  before  they  can  be approved.
- It is wrong to suggest in the Questions that the Contracts are themselves some type of gaming.
- It is wrong to suggest in the Questions that the Contracts may be ill-suited to the hedging  needs  of  individuals  and  that  other  derivatives  contracts  may  be  more suitable.
- It  would be wrong to disapprove the Contracts based on a finding that they are contrary to the public interest.

We address these points below, while also offering our view of what the right approach would be in each case.

It  is  wrong  to  review  the  Contracts  under  Regulation  40.11. Kalshi  submitted  the Contracts for review and approval under Regulation 40.3. Under paragraph (b) of that Regulation, the  Commission must approve 'a new product unless the terms and conditions of the product violate' either the Commodity Exchange Act or Commission Regulations. The Contracts do not violate  the  law  or  the  rules  at  issue,  which  means  that  they  should  have  been  reviewed  and approved within either the 45 days allowed the Commission by Regulation 40.3(c) or an extended period as agreed by the Commission and Kalshi under Regulation 40.3(d).

According  to  the  Commission's  letter  to  Kalshi  on  August  26,  2022,  however,  the Contracts are instead being reviewed under Regulation 40.11 on the basis that they 'may involve, relate to, or reference an activity enumerated in Commission Regulation 40.11(a) and Section 5c(c)(5)(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act.' The 'activities enumerated' in those provisions are terrorism, assassination, war, gaming, and crime (something illegal). As we explain below, the Contracts involve, relate to, or reference none of these things.

Instead , the Commission should consider the Contracts under Regulation 40.3, which is the provision under which Kalshi submitted them. (This  view  was  first  publicly  articulated  as  to  the  Contracts  in  Commissioner  Pham's  dissent  to  the Commission's decision to review the Contracts under Section 5c(c)(5)(C).)

It is wrong to suggest, as the Questions do, that the Contracts must be shown to have an 'economic purpose' like hedging or price basing before they can be approved. That test is not to be found in the Commodity Exchange Act at any point in its history. The Commission does  not  have  statutory  authority  to  impose  such  a  test.  In  fact,  we  have  found  that,  at  most, Congress advanced the idea of an 'economic purpose' test in a bill that never made it into the Commodity Exchange Act. (See, e.g., Aron and Jones, 'States' Big Gamble on Sports Betting,' UNLV Gaming Law Journal, Vol 12: Issue  1,  Article  4  at  n.92  (2021)  ('The  economic  purpose  test  is  derived  from  an  unadopted  version  of  former [Commodity Exchange Act] Section 5(g). Congress instead adopted the Senate's broader version of Section 5(g) that included a 'public interest' standard.') That broader 'public interest standard' was struck from the Commodity Exchange Act by the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000. See Pub. Law No. 106-554, 114 Stat. 2763, ยง 110(2) (2000) (striking the prior Section 5 of the Commodity Exchange Act, which included the 'public interest standard').)  Nor is there anything in the operative sections of the statute and the rules to indicate that a test Congress never adopted should have any relevance to the Commission's deliberations today.

Section 5c(c)(5)(B)-which we submit is the correct statutory standard-states that '[t]he Commission shall approve a new contract or other instrument unless [it] finds that the new contract or other instrument would violate the Commodity Exchange Act (including regulations).' No part of the Commodity Exchange Act contains an express economic purpose test. Nor does a designated contract market like Kalshi have to explain the economic purpose of new contracts when they voluntarily submit them for Commission review under Regulation 40.3.

'A submission requesting approval shall,' as Regulation 40.3(a)(4) explains:
Include an explanation and analysis of the product and its compliance with applicable provisions of the [Commodity Exchange] Act, including  core  principles ,  and  the  Commission's regulations thereunder. This explanation and analysis shall either be accompanied by the documentation relied upon to establish the basis for compliance with the applicable law, or incorporate information contained in such documentation, with appropriate citations to data sources[.]

(Emphasis added.)

No  section of the Commodity  Exchange  Act  or  the Commission's  Regulations contemplated by this instruction states that a designated contract market must provide an economic purpose for new contracts that it has submitted for Commission review. For example, none of the 'core principles' for designated contract markets, which are found in Section 5 of the Commodity

Exchange  Act  and  Part  38  of  the  Commission's  Regulations,  impose  an  'economic  purpose' requirement on contracts that the market lists of trading.

The Commission has decided to evaluate the Contracts under Section 5c(c)(5)(C) as a type of 'gaming' contract, and therefore it is proceeding to review the Contracts for approval under Regulation 40.11. Even under those two provisions, no requirement for establishing a contract's economic  purpose  can  be  found.  Section  5c(c)(5)(C)(i)  provides  that  the  Commission  'may determine' that contracts on events that reference terrorism, assassination, war, and gaming are 'contrary to the public interest.' Similarly, Regulation 40.11(a)(2) prohibits a registered entity (like a designated contract market) from 'list[ing] for trading or accept[ing] for clearing' a contract that  references  an  activity  'similar  to'  terrorism,  assassination,  war,  gaming  or  crime  if  the Commission determines that the contract would 'be contrary to the public interest.' The 'public interest' is not the same thing as an 'economic purpose,' and the Commission has not elsewhere suggested that they are equivalent. Indeed, the Questions treat the concepts of 'economic purpose' and 'public interest' separately. (Compare Questions 6-11 (economic purpose) to Questions 12-17 (public interest).)

Instead , the Commission should determine whether the Contract meets the requirements stated  in  the  plain  statutory  and  rule  text  of  the  relevant  authorizing  provisions.  As  explained earlier, we think those provisions are Section 5c(c)(5)(B) and Commission Regulation 40.3.

It is wrong to suggest in the Questions that the Contracts are themselves some type of gaming. Doing so conflates an enumerated event with the Contracts themselves, which are binary options.  That  is,  the  Contacts  could  only  fall  within  the  ambit  of  Section  5c(c)(5)(C)  and Regulation 40.11 if the Commission's premise were that the Contracts themselves-rather than the events that they reference-constitute gaming. The Contracts do not reference an event of terrorism, assassination or war; nor do they involve anything that is illegal under federal or state law. Elections are plainly lawful. For the Commission's premise to be valid, then, it would also have to be possible for there to be contract that itself would be an event of terrorism, assassination, war, or crime. That would be a total non sequitur.

If that is not the Commission's premise on this reading, then the Commission would have to take the position that any contract referencing a type of event enumerated in Section 5c(c)(5)(C) would be gaming. This would mean that a contract on an event of terrorism, assassination, war, or crime would be a form of gaming, too. Setting aside the propriety of such a thing, if the statute were to be read this way, doing so would make the enumerated categories other than gaming superfluous.  That  is,  the  statute  could  accomplish  the  goal  of  prohibiting  gaming  simply  by prohibiting gaming, full stop. Taking Section 5c(c)(5)(C) to mean that all referenced contracts are gaming contracts would be wrong, however. It is canonical that each word in a statute must be given separate effect.

There  is  nothing  in  the  statutory  text  that  treats  gaming  differently  from  the  other enumerated event types. A contract on war would be prohibited just the same as a contract on gaming would be prohibited, for example. A contract does not become gaming because of what it references; to hold so would be contrary to what the statute and the rule both say. (The Commission must apply the Commodity Exchange Act as it is written by Congress and passed into law. In this regard, other agency publications have given weight to certain remarks made during a Congressional floor debate about the statutory provision at issue. See e.g., CFTC, Statement of Commissioner Dan M. Berkovitz Related to Review of ErisX Certification of NFL Futures Contracts (Apr. 7, 2021) (discussing an unpublished decision to disapprove sports contracts following their withdrawal from consideration by the ErisX contract market), available at https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/SpeechesTestimony/berkovitzstatement040721. What two Senators said in a floor debate does not control where, as here, the full Senate and the House of Representatives spoke unambiguously in the statute. Still, what those Senators were discussing makes clear that they thought Section 5c(c)(5)(C) would prohibit 'gambling' with its reference to gaming, including 'futures contracts' or other 'event contract[s] around sporting events such as the Super Bowl, the Kentucky Derby, and Masters Golf Tournament .' See id. (emphasis added).)

Instead ,  and  if  it  is  to  proceed  under  Section  5c(c)(5)(C)  and  Regulation  40.11,  the Commission should review whether the event underlying the Contracts is itself gaming. That is easily answered: Elections are not 'gaming,' whether the gaming definition relied upon is widely accepted or more abstruse. (For this reason, we do not attempt to suggest to the Commission what the 'right' definition of gaming should be. Doing so would be beside the point.)

It  is  wrong to suggest in the Questions that the Contracts may be ill-suited to the hedging needs of individuals and that other derivatives contracts may be more suitable. The Commodity Exchange Act does not provide that a new contract can be approved only if it is suitable  for  use  by  customers  and  investors.  Nor  does  the  statute  give  the  Commission  the discretion to determine whether new contracts are suitable for any particular purpose before they are approved. Rather, Section 5c(c)(5)(B) states that, in reviewing a new contract, the Commission 'shall approve [it] unless the Commission finds that [it] would violate' the statute or Commission Regulations. And, even for as far as it goes, Section 5c(c)(5)(C) does not impose a suitability standard or give the Commission authority to disapprove contracts because the Commission thinks that other, existing contracts are more fit for the intended purpose. (For example, at least one other designated contract market has self-certified contracts on large events that may have diffuse but nonetheless significant impact on individuals. See Atlantic  Named  Storm  Landfall  Options Contract (filed June 13, 2016) (enabling contract market participants the opportunity to hedge risks associated with hurricanes or tropical storms falling within a specified geographic area; contracts could be used for hedging different risks), available at https://sirt.cftc.gov/sirt/sirt.aspx?Topic=TradingOrganizationProductsAD&amp;Key=34704.)

Instead , the Commission should apply the statutory standard of Section 5c(c)(5)(B) as it was written by Congress. (In addition, the Questions that ask about the potential impacts of the Contracts on federal campaign finance laws are irrelevant under the standard that the Commission is directed to apply by Section 5c(c)(5)(B). That subject is outside the scope of Section 5c(c)(5)(B) and, as we explain in the next section, the 'public interest' language in Section 5c(c)(5)(C) and Regulation 40.11 does not admit for any consideration of campaign finance law, beyond perhaps an event that violates campaign finance law (i.e., illegal conduct). A campaign finance violation is different than an election outcome.)

It  would  be  wrong  to  disapprove  the  Contracts  based  on  a  finding  that  they  are contrary to the public interest. The 'public interest' is relevant to Commission reviews under Section 5c(c)(5)(C) and Regulation 40.11(a) in three ways, none of which are germane to the Contracts:

- First ,  clauses  (i)(I)-(V)  of  Section  5c(c)(5)(C)  state  that  the  Commission  may determine a contract is 'contrary to the public interest' if it involves terrorism, assassination, war, gaming, or crime. Plainly, an election is not any of those things.
- Second ,  clause (i)(VI) of Section 5c(c)(5)(C) explains that the Commission may determine that a new contract is contrary to the public interest if it involves ' other similar activity determined by the Commission, by rule or regulation, to be contrary to the public interest' (emphasis added). An election is not similar to terrorism, assassination, war, gaming, or crime.
- Third -
- o Paragraph (a)(2) of Regulation 40.11 provides that a contract may not be listed  for  trading  or  cleared  if  it  'involves,  relates  to,  or  references  an activity that is similar to' terrorism, assassination, war, gaming, or crime, ' and that the Commission determines, by rule or regulation, to be contrary to  the  public  interest'  (emphasis  added).  While the Commission may be inclined to think that the Contracts are contrary to the public interest, its ability  to  disapprove  them  becomes  operative  only  if  it  determines  that elections are events 'similar to' those enumerated earlier in the Regulation. We doubt the Commission would be able to make such a determination on any realistic set of facts.
- o Instead, the Commission would have to consider the reference to 'public interest' in paragraph (a)(2) of Regulation 40.11 as a freestanding power to reject any contract that it determined to be contrary to the public interest.

That would make a cannon of a rifle. An agency must not read into a rule a broader power than exists in the authorizing statutory language. The 'public interest'  power  reserved  to  the  Commission  in  Section  5c(c)(5)(C)  only extends  to  activity  'similar  to'  terrorism,  assassination,  war,  gaming,  or crime. Going beyond that with the rule would be going beyond what the law allows. (This may well be why the Questions conflate the Contracts with gaming itself-because to read the statute as written would mean the Contracts are permissible under Section 5c(c)(5)(C) and Regulation 40.11.)

Instead ,  the  Commission  should  approve  the  Contracts  under  Section  5c(c)(5)(B)  and Regulation 40.3, which impose no public interest requirement. The same result would be reached even if the Commission were to proceed under Section 5c(c)(5)(C) and Regulation 40.11 and, in doing so, applied 'public interest' as it is used in those provisions.

We  greatly  appreciate  the  care  and  attention  that  the  Commission  has  given  to  the Contracts.  They  are  indeed  of  great  significance  to  the  development  and  growth  of  financial markets, so we thank the Commissioners and the professional staff of the Commission for the time that they are continuing to dedicate to them. While we applaud those efforts, we disagree with the approach  being  taken.  We  think  the  Commission  is  fundamentally  mistaken  to  evaluate  the Contracts as if they involve, reference, or relate to gaming. They simply do not.

We thank the Commission once more for undertaking a deliberate, public process with regard to the Contracts. We are confident that, through processes like this one, the Commission will continue to be a leader in fostering responsible innovation in our financial markets.

Very truly yours,

Joshua B. Sterling

David E. Aron

cc: 
The Honorable Rostin Behnam, Chairman 
The Honorable Kristin N. Johnson, Commissioner 
The Honorable Christy Goldsmith Romero, Commissioner 
The Honorable Summer K. Mersinger, Commissioner 
The Honorable Caroline D. Pham, Commissioner 
Clark Hutchison, Director, Division of Clearing and Risk 
Vince McGonagle, Director, Division of Market Oversight 
Robert Schwartz, General Counsel 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
Summer L. Flowers, Esq. 
Jones Day