September  23, 2022

VIA  Electronic  Submission  and  Email

Mr. Christopher  Kirkpatrick Secretary  of the  Commission Commodity  Futures  Trading  Commission Three  Lafayette  Centre 1155 21 st Street,  NW Washington, DC  20581

Re: CFTC Rule  40.1 l(c)  Review  and  Comment  Period Proposed  Congressional  Control  Contracts (Industry  Filing  22-002)

Dear  Mr. Kirkpatrick:

Susquehanna  International  Group, LLP  ("SIG") (SIG  affiliated  companies  have  operated  as  registered  market  makers  and  broker/dealers  in  the  U.S. securities  and  futures  markets for  over  30  years  and  collectively  participate  in  a  significant  percentage  of daily  consolidated  volume  in  exchange  listed  products.)  appreciates  the  opportunity  to comment  on  the  proposed KalshiEX  futures  contracts  regarding  control  of Congress  (the  "Contracts")  self-certified  by  KalshiEx,  LLC (the "Exchange") on July 19,  2022 (the "Proposal"). The Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") has provided several questions regarding the Proposal that relate, in large part, to the public interest.  As a  longstanding  market  maker  of exchange traded derivative instruments, we  believe that  the public interest  would be very much served by the Exchange providing a regulated market to trade the Contracts in  the  proposed  manner.  The  reasons  supporting  our  views are  provided  below.

As an  initial  matter, several  of the  CFTC's  questions regarding  the  potential listing  of the  Contracts relate to whether  the Contracts constitute "gaming"  as referenced in  CFTC Rule 40.11.  While we defer  to the arguments  submitted  by  the  Exchange  and  legal  experts  on  this  issue,  we  would  note  that  our  understanding of  "gaming"  is  that  it  involves  an  activity  wherein  a  person  (typically  a  gambler, a  casino, or  a  sportsbook) takes on  financial risk  as an inherent part  of the  person's  gambling  operations and unrelated to any  other business activity.  By contrast, the Contracts at issue offer  genuine hedging opportunities by providing persons (typically  businesses) involved in industries unrelated  to gambling a financial market solution  to alleviate financial risk  and  uncertainty arising outside of  their  day-to-day operations by trading that  risk with a  third-party  without  otherwise  affecting  those  day-to-day  business  operations.

The value of  a derivatives product stems largely  from  its ability  to offer  a  hedge against  unwanted  risk. When a  regulated  derivates  market  makes such a product  available, the  public  generally  benefits.  In  this case, the listing of the Contracts provides significant  direct  and indirect  benefits to  the public  as it  offers the most efficient method of  hedging the numerous risks associated with one party  winning control of Congress instead  of another.

the most efficient method of  hedging the numerous risks associated with one party winning control of Congress instead of  another.

As other commentors have explained, market  participants already regularly adjust  their  trading strategies in response to electoral outcomes, as different governments have substantially different policies. While there  is  some  uncertainty  regarding  the  exact  manifestation  of specific  policies,  the  Contracts  allow  a  market participant-and the market as a whole-to forecast  the implications associated  with one party's  political agenda and then react to the possible outcome of  an election. Indeed, the directional effect of  a given government on commodity and security prices can  be (and is) predicted.  For  example, one political party with a majority  control of  Congress may  be more likely  than  another  to impose either  more strict  or  more lenient environmental regulations that  would respectively  raise  or  reduce  operational  costs associated  with certain  energy  industries.  If  the  risk  of increased  regulatory  costs is great  enough, businesses and  suppliers in the energy sector could alleviate the potential cost increase by trading a Contract with a party more willing to bear that risk. Similarly, a given political party may be more or less likely to approve new expenditures-such  as infrastructure  projects-than  another. Market  participants  relying  upon congressional spending in that sector could use the Contracts to hedge the risk of  gaining or losing this anticipated  source  of funding.

Plainly, changes in  government  result  in  myriad  regulatory  consequences, which  in  turn  pose  a  quantifiable risk  to  many different  market  participants.  Our  experience over  decades in  the financial industry suggests that  traditional instruments are  insufficient  to  fully  hedge  the  risk  that  arise  from  these  fluctuations  in  federal policy. Many products do not have future markets associated with them (for example, in the agriculture space, most fruits and vegetables do not have a futures market). As such, market participants that face idiosyncratic  policy  risk  are  forced  to  use  imperfect  exchange-traded  products  that  do  not  fully  reduce  their unwanted  risk.

The Contracts, on the other hand, can be used to efficiently hedge business risks in the same manner as other  successfully  listed  hedging  products.  That  is, once  the  excess  business  risk  associated  with  one  party's political  agenda  has  been  identified  by  the Customer, it  can  be  efficiently  transferred  to  another  party  more willing and able  to manage  the risk.  Indeed, when  a farmer  uses a  listed  future to  hedge a  crop harvest, or a financial institution  uses a  listed  future  to  hedge a  portfolio  of investment  products, the  same general risk management goal applies to those  instances as it  would  to a  business that  will hedge  using  the  Contracts on the  Exchange.  The  ability  to  hedge  risk  also  enables  market  participants to  operate  steadier  businesses.  For instance,  a public works  contractor concerned about the above-hypothetical  change  in infrastructure spending could alleviate  that  risk  and, for  example, potentially  avoid  preemptive layoffs.

The availability of  the Contracts on the Exchange likely has an equally beneficial impact on broader financial markets.  Specifically, because  election  results already  influence  the way  that  market  participants trade, the prices of certain  commodities and securities necessarily  react  to an  anticipated  election  result  as well.  As such, we believe that by allowing market participants to trade positions on  upcoming elections, the  market  will naturally  and efficiently  determine  the  most  accurate  underlying  prices associated  with  one party winning over another.  These prices, in  turn, provide the most accurate indicator of  the outcome of the upcoming elections.  Market  participants likely react  to that data and the market adjusts the prices of commodities and securities that would be impacted  by  the election accordingly. Thus, while no specific outcome may  be  guaranteed, the  availability  of this  data  often  results  in  more  efficiently  priced  commodities and securities for consumers while allowing for less fluctuation and speculation. Stated differently, by allowing market participants to trade on the outcome of  elections, the actual outcome of  those elections would have a minimized impact on the volatility of  the market as a whole because that outcome will be "priced  in." The  resulting  predictability of prices benefits both  market  participants and the general public.

The final set  of  questions posed by  the CFTC with respect  to the Contracts concern  whether  the Contracts are "contrary to the public interest."  While many other  commenters have weighed in  regarding the social significance of  these contract's hedging utility and their resistance to market manipulation, SIG would emphasize  the  importance of bringing  this valuable activity  under  a  US-based  regulatory  framework.  Vast amounts of  election-related  trading already occur  in  the status quo, often  on  unregulated  platforms that  do not have the robust oversight and protections that American consumers have come to expect or  on other overseas markets.  This fact should not only  highlight  the clear demand that  exists for  these products but also underscores the benefit to citizens and businesses by bringing this activity to the onshore, regulated, and taxed market.  Approval of  the Contracts and the resulting ability for  market  participants to manage their  own risk  in  a  regulated  environment  would  provide much  needed  market  protection  for  the  many  that already avail themselves of  these  hedging  tools.

In conclusion, SIG strongly supports the CFTC's approval of  the listing of the Contracts and believes that the  Contracts are  in  the public interest  as  they  are an  innovative product  that  provide an  active, competitive hedging market  to the  benefit  of a multitude of  stakeholders.

Sincerely,
David  Pollard, Head  of Strategic  Planning