## July 23, 2023

SUBMITTED VIA CFTC PORTAL Secretary of the Commission Office of the Secretariat U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Three Lafayette Centre 1155 21st Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20581

Re: Comments Responding to the Commission's Specific Questions Related to KalshiEX, LLC's Proposed Congressional Control Contracts

## To Whom It May Concern:

KalshiEX, LLC ('Kalshi' or 'Exchange') is grateful to the Commission for its consideration of Kalshi's proposed contracts. As with Kalshi's previous submission, the Exchange welcomes the opportunity to address the Commission's questions in full. Public comment is a critical tool for the Commission to engage with market participants and gauge the public's stance on issues regarding contract utility, surveillance, and viability.

The Commission is unique among financial regulators for its commitments to, and success fostering, innovative new products. As Chairman Behnam testified recently in front of the Senate Agriculture Committee,

On September 21, 1922, nearly 100 years ago to the day, the Grain Futures Act of 1922 was signed into law, which led to the near immediate establishment of the then CFTC. With that legislative accomplishment, this Committee and the Congress swiftly responded to a policy need that arose on the heels of emerging risks to American consumers because of new financial markets and products, technological innovation, and the promise of economic development. With the CFTC's rich history overseeing commodity markets, coupled with its expertise and track record, which rests on a firm foundation as a forceful and disciplined cop on the beat, the Agency stands ready to tackle these new risks and opportunities one century later. (Testimony of Chairman Rostin Behnam Regarding the Legislative Hearing to Review S.4760, the Digital Commodities Consumer Protection Act at the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. September 15, 2022. Available at https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/SpeechesTestimony/opabehnam26.)

Or as former Chairman Giancarlo wrote to the same body,

…the CFTC has been at the forefront of US financial market innovation since the agency's inception. In fact, the CFTC was reformulated over forty years ago into an independent body specifically to safeguard a breakthrough in financial innovation -financial futures - that enabled the global economy to hedge the risk of moving interest and exchange rates ensuring the US Dollar's primacy as the world's reserve currency. During the past decades, the CFTC has deftly overseen more new financial product innovation than almost any other market regulator. (Giancarlo, J. Christopher. 'J. Christopher Giancarlo Letter in Support of the Digital Commodities Consumer Protection Act.' September 15, 2022. Available at https://tabbforum.com/opinions/j-christopher-giancarlo-letter-in-support-of-the-digital-commodities-consumer-prote ction-act/.)

Projects like LabCFTC-now the Office of Technology Innovation-, and the continued efforts by the Commission to regulate digital asset markets, remind us of the agency's commitment to responsible innovation. Responsible innovation is in the public interest and provides market participants with hedging and price basing opportunities they would not otherwise have.

Kalshi's contract is yet another iteration of this endeavor. The contract is compliant with the law, Core Principles, rules, and regulations. It has broad hedging and price-basing utility and social value, as detailed by Kalshi's submission to the Commission and dozens of public comments from retail customers, small businesses, and leading members of industry. The Commission's decision should consider the full weight of evidence that it has been provided with, beginning with Kalshi's original submission regarding political control contracts to DMO on March 28, 2022, until today. That evidence comes from academic research, market testimony, and other election markets running in the United States and abroad. After considering all of this evidence, there is only one reasonable determination the Commission can make: that these contracts comply with the Commodity Exchange Act ('CEA') and are affirmatively advance, as the CEA's mission reminds us, the 'national public interest by providing a means for managing and assuming price risks, discovering prices, or disseminating pricing information through trading in liquid, fair and financially secure trading facilities.'

In these responses, the Exchange references and integrates comments from the prior submission, as well as the current one, which Kalshi strongly believes are material to this matter.

## 1. Do these contracts involve, relate to, or reference gaming as described in Commission regulation 40.11(a)(1) and section 5c(c)(5)(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act, or in the alternative, involve, relate to, or reference an activity that is similar to gaming as described in Commission regulation 40.11(a)(2) and section 5c(c)(5)(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act?

The application of the Special Rule in section 5c(c)(5)(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act ('Special Rule') is addressed at length in its original submission, including letters provided by our counsel Elie Mishory, along with former CFTC General Counsel Jonathan Marcus and former CFTC General Counsel Dan Davis. (Public comment by Elie Mishory. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=70781.) Additional commenters on this point include former Nadex CEO Timothy McDermott, as well as other public comments by former CFTC officials and industry actors such former Commissioner Brian Quintenz, former Commissioner Mark Wetjen, 'father of futures' Dr. Richard Sandor, Gregory Kuserk, who led the Product Review branch in DMO, former MPD Director Josh Sterling, Daniel Gorfine, Lewis Cohen, Jeremy Weinstein, Susquehanna International Group, Tabet DiVito & Rothstein, and Railbird Technologies. (Public comments 70786, 70771, 69687, 70754, 69737, 70755, 69736, 69723, 70743, 70765, 70752.) Many other comments also detail the qualitative differences between the contracts proposed by Kalshi and gaming, by virtue of the contract's economic purpose. The Exchange makes the following points as well.

### 1: Elections and political control are not games.

Unlike games, in which the underlying activity has no inherent economic value apart from the money wagered on it, political control has an obvious and large economic impact, as it heavily influences expectations and the likelihood of public policy change. As Gregory Kuserk noted, unlike games, 'Elections are events that are very important to the public, and there is a very strong public interest in having accurate data regarding elections.' (Public comment by Gregory Kuserk. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=70754.) Kalshi detailed as much in dozens of pages of evidence provided to the Commission, drawing on private and university research, policymaker and industry testimony, and the financial press. (Memorandum in Support of Kalshi's Political Control Contracts, submitted to Division of Market Oversight (DMO) March 28, 2022.) Many public comments by retail, industry, and academia have confirmed as much. (See public comments by Chicago Booth school Professor Michael Gibbs and Susquehanna International Group Special Counsel David Pollard. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69704 and https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=70743.)

Kalshi's contracts do not involve gaming. It involves the partisan affiliation of the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate's President pro tempore , which are not determined through or relate to games of chance, or games of skill. (Kalshi's Congressional control submission, available at: https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/filings/ptc/22/08/ptc082422kexdcm001.pdf. See page 9.) Elections are not games, full stop. Indeed, the Nadex Order did not identify political elections themselves-the core of American democracy-as being a game. ( In the Matter of the Self-Certification by North American Derivatives Exchange, Inc. of Political Event Derivatives Contracts and Related Rule Amendments under Part 40 of the Regulations of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (April 2, 2012), available at: https://www.cftc.gov/stellent/groups/public/@rulesandproducts/documents/ifdocs/nadexorder040212.pdf.)

### 2: Trading on Congressional control is not gaming

The Nadex Order asserted that gaming is equivalent to placing a wager or bet, and it cited a federal statute that defined the term bet or wager as 'the staking or risking by any person of something of value upon the outcome of a contest of others.' (Nadex Order at 3) If taking a position on a Congressional control contract is equivalent to a 'wager' or 'bet' because it places money on an event's outcome, that would imply that taking a position in any event contract is also equivalent to a 'wager' or 'bet'. (Some commentators appear to equate speculation with gaming and do not sympathize with the important role speculation plays in price discovery and risk transfer. Many commodity futures markets, such as those in oil, often feature large amounts of speculative behavior yet clearly do not constitute 'gaming' contracts.) This is not true in law. While gambling is illegal in many states and interstate betting is prohibited, event contracts are legal in all jurisdictions. As former Commissioner Quintenz wrote:

Gaming describes wagering money on an occurrence that has no inherent economic value itself other than the money wagered on its outcome. For instance, wagering money on roulette or blackjack should be considered gaming because there is no economic significance of the activity apart from the wager itself. Speculation, on the contrary, is risking value where the underlying activity has economic consequences, which then means the speculative activity creates valuable societal and economic benefit from a price-discovery and risk transfer function for those exposed to the risk of that underlying activity.. (See Public Comment on Kalshi Contracts from Brian D. Quintenz, available at: https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=70786)

The relevant language of 'involve, relate to, or reference' comes from Commission regulation 40.11. 13 This language cannot be broader than the statutory language that is simply 'involves'. (17 C.F.R. § 40.11(a)) By definition, if the regulation applied more broadly than the statute, it would per se violate the APA and be invalid. (7 U.S.C § 7a-2(c)(5)(C))

## 2. What role does the requirement that the contracts trade in multiples of 5000 and/or the position limits applicable to the contracts play in the analysis of whether the contracts involve, relate to, or reference gaming as described in Commission regulation 40.11(a)(1) and section 5c(c)(5)(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act? Are the position limits reasonably enforceable?

It does not play a role. A larger order size will likely reduce the number of smaller traders and trades, but does not affect the contract's hedging utility.

The position limits are enforceable; Kalshi is regulated by the Commission who can monitor such behavior. Other exchanges list products with custom order sizes, notional sizes, and position limits as well. There is no reason to speculate that Kalshi will somehow not be able to enforce this. Indeed, the Division is well aware of Kalshi's ability to enforce position limits. Additionally, it is not clear why Kalshi's ability to enforce a rule is appropriate for public comment. How is a member of the public supposed to have information on Kalshi's systems and procedures and internal processes for compliance? It would seem that the most appropriate party to address this question to is Kalshi, and Kalshi notes that surprisingly and incongruously, the Commission has never asked Kalshi this question.

## 3. Should the Commission consider whether similar offerings are available in traditional gaming venues such as casinos or sports books and/or whether taking a position on elections or congressional control is defined as gaming under state or federal law?

### 1: Should the Commission consider whether similar offerings are available in traditional gaming venues such as casinos or sports books?

No, the Commission should not consider this in determining whether a contract is gaming and subject to the Special Rule for event contracts, for four reasons:

1. Presence on an illegal exchange, casino or sportsbook does not by right cause relation to gaming. For example, if corn futures become widely traded in casinos and sports books, that would not change the nature of the corn futures contract into a gaming contract. The converse is also true. If a traditional futures exchange started a roulette parlor, the bets in the parlor would still be gaming.
2. What is offered at such venues changes over time. For example, if we used this 'nature of the venue determines nature of the product' standard, many commodity futures and securities might have originally been considered gaming because bucket shops traded those products in large volumes in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. They may have continued to do so in the absence of bucket shop prohibitions.
3. The Commission prevented Congressional control contracts from being listed on-exchange in the Nadex Order . It would be circular to use the fact that such activity has persisted off-exchange as evidence the activity is gaming. For example, if the Commission prohibited oil futures, and oil futures trading moved to casinos, that would not suddenly change the economic nature of oil futures.
4. The Commission did not consider the venues offering, for example, Bitcoin contracts prior to the listing of Bitcoin contracts on DCMs. If the Commission considered this inquiry to be dispositive that something is gaming, those contracts would be gaming contracts because of their large presence on such venues.

However, even if the Commission did consider venue as relevant in determining whether the contracts involve gaming, Congressional control is not offered on any legal American sportsbook and is not available in casinos, like those in Las Vegas. (McIntre, David. 'They Won't Take Your Bet On The Election In Las Vegas.' FiveThirtyEight . 2016.) Bets on the control of Congress aren't accepted at Caesar's Palace or the Bellagio. Such contracts are only currently offered on some overseas betting services, and illegal or unregulated venues in the United States.

Instead of considering venue, the Commission should consider whether the subject of the contracts involves gaming when adjudicating whether a contract involves gaming, per Kalshi's letter on the Special Rule's application.

### 2: Should the Commission consider taking a position on elections or congressional control is defined as gaming under state or federal law?

No, for two reasons.

First, because per the Special Rule, only the underlying event (Congressional control) should be considered in determining whether the contracts involve gaming. The application of the Special Rule with regards to this question is addressed at length in a separate comment, which also includes letters provided by our counsel, former CFTC General Counsels Jonathan Marcus and Dan Davis. (Public comment by Elie Mishory. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=70781.) Additional commenters on this point include former Commissioner Brian Quintenz, former Commissioner and Acting Chairman Mark Wetjen, 'father of financial futures' Dr. Richard Sandor, MPD Director Josh Sterling, our director Timothy McDermott, as well as other public comments by former CFTC officials and industry actors such as Daniel Gorfine, Lewis Cohen, Tabet DiVito &amp; Rothstein, and Jeremy Weinstein. (Public comments 70786, 69737, 69687, 70755, 69736, 70765, and 69723.)

Second, taking a position in an event contract is not equivalent to, as states or the federal government may define it, gaming. This is not true legally (interstate betting is illegal, and betting is illegal in many states; event contracts are legal in all jurisdictions) or in practice. As then Commissioner Quintenz wrote in his ErisX statement,

Whereas bettors participate in games of pure chance, whose sole purpose is to completely reward the winner and punish the loser for an outcome that would otherwise provide no economic utility (think roulette), speculators in the derivatives market participate in non-chance driven outcomes that have price forming impacts upon which legitimate businesses can hedge their activities and cash flows. (See Statement of Commissioner Brian D. Quintenz on ErisX RSBIX NFL Contracts and Certain Event Contracts, 'Any Given Sunday in the Futures Market' (Mar. 25, 2021), available at https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/SpeechesTestimony/quintenzstatement032521))

Taking a position in an event contract is also not equivalent to gaming, as defined by those laws, because such laws are not operative on CFTC-regulated products. Federal law definitions of gaming, betting, wagering carve out exemptions for CFTC-regulated products. (The Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 'do[es] not include…any transaction conducted on or subject to the rules of a registered entity or exempt board of trade under the Commodity Exchange Act'. 31 U.S.C. § 5362(1)(E) (2006).) Many states' gaming provisions also include such exemptions. (For example, Washington state RCW 21.30.030 clarifies that CFTC-regulated transactions are not affected by its anti-bucket shop provisions.) States' gaming provisions are preempted explicitly as well by the CFMA. ( 7 USC 2(a)(1) covers exclusive CFTC jurisdiction over futures and swaps, so any state laws that would purport to regulate or prohibit futures or swaps would be preempted.. The CEA also preempts state gaming laws with respect to derivative products that are excluded or exempt from the CEA. See 7 USC 16(e)(2) ("This Act shall supersede and preempt the application of any State or local law that prohibits or regulates gaming or the operation of bucket shops . . . in the case of --- (A) an electronic trading facility excluded under section 2(e) of this Act; and (B) an agreement, contract, or transaction that is excluded from this Act under [provisions of] the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, or exempted under section 4(c) of this Act.").) Even derivatives products that are excluded or exempted from CFTC regulation still preempt state gaming and bucket shop laws per the CFMA. (Ibid) It could not follow more plainly that CFTC-regulated derivatives have the same preemptive effect. Congress has repeatedly recognized that futures and other derivative contracts serve economic purposes and, therefore, state laws that purport to prohibit or regulate futures or derivative contracts (including gaming laws) do not violate the CEA and are preempted. All of this shows that Congress and the states understand that there is a critical distinction between betting and legitimate, federally recognized and regulated financial activity. Election contracts that are designed for price formation and hedging on a derivative exchange constitute legitimate financial activity. Therefore, it would be incorrect to give consideration of the definitions under state and federal gambling laws. As these laws themselves recognize, they do not apply to contracts like Kalshi's.

Indeed, a key purpose of the CEA and granting the CFTC exclusive jurisdiction over futures was to authorize and promote trading of futures contracts notwithstanding state laws that might purport to prohibit them as gambling. The only way in which state law is relevant is if the activity underlying the event contract violates state law, such as a contract on murder or state income tax evasion. In that case, Congress wanted to make sure that a futures contract would not legitimize that activity without the Commission considering whether trading the contract would be contrary to the public interest. (Congress obviously would not be concerned about legitimizing elections. Even if the focus comes to legitimizing the trading on elections as part of the ultimate public interest analysis, the Commission has already crossed that bridge by long permitting market participants to trade such contracts pursuant to no action letters awarded to unregulated markets. The notion that allowing a regulated exchange to offer the contracts is what changes the public interest analysis is insupportable.)

As for the federal prohibition on interstate betting, the Wire Act is irrelevant here-it applies only to sports betting and wagering. Moreover, when Congress most recently addressed the intersection of gambling/gaming and the Internet, it carved out derivatives contracts (both on exchange and over the counter) from the definition of betting and wagering, thereby plainly recognizing that derivatives contracts serve economic purposes that distinguish them from gambling/gaming. (The Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 'do[es] not include…any transaction conducted on or subject to the rules of a registered entity or exempt board of trade under the Commodity Exchange Act'. 31 U.S.C. § 5362(1)(E) (2006).) Congress recognized this much earlier too, granting the CFTC exclusive jurisdiction over futures as noted above and expressly preempting state gaming laws in the CFMA. (7 USC 2(a)(1) covers exclusive CFTC jurisdiction over futures and swaps, so any state laws that would purport to regulate or prohibit futures or swaps would be preempted.. The CEA also preempts state gaming laws with respect to derivative products that are excluded or exempt from the CEA. See 7 USC 16(e)(2) ("This Act shall supersede and preempt the application of any State or local law that prohibits or regulates gaming or the operation of bucket shops . . . in the case of --- (A) an electronic trading facility excluded under section 2(e) of this Act; and (B) an agreement, contract, or transaction that is excluded from this Act under [provisions of] the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, or exempted under section 4(c) of this Act.").)

Additionally, many broad state gambling laws would define all event contracts as gaming, as well as many other futures, swaps, and options. States like New Hampshire, for example, define gambling as having 'to risk something of value upon a future contingent event not under one's control or influence.' (New Hampshire Rev Stat § 647:2(II)(d) (2017); see also Alaska Stat. § 11.66.280(3) ('gambling' means that a person stakes or risks something of value upon the outcome of a contest of chance or a future contingent event not under the person's control or influence, upon an agreement or understanding that that person or someone else will receive something of value in the event of a certain outcome'); Oregon Rev. Stat. § 167.117(7) (''Gambling' means that a person stakes or risks something of value upon the outcome of a contests of chance or a future contingent event not under the control or influence of the person . . .').) If the Commission were to find that the contracts involve gaming on the theory that New Hampshire state law prohibit gambling/wagering on elections, that would mean 'wagering' is equivalent to taking a position on any event contract, which in turn would require that the Special Rule is triggered by any event contract because many New Hampshire's and many other state's gambling laws prohibit wagering on the outcome of any future event. That interpretation was clearly not Congress' intent. Instead, Congress narrowly defined a small number of event contracts whose underlying event involves an unsavory activity that Congress did not want the CFTC to legitimize without evaluating whether trading a contract on that activity would be contrary to the public interest (as per the text, which isolates a selected set of enumerated events to target).

Time and time again, Congress and states have indicated that the Commission has the decision making power over derivatives market issues, including event contracts, and approval of Kalshi's contract has no involvement with gaming any more than an event contract on the growth of Gross Domestic Product or whether a bill becomes law. If the Commission chooses to isolate these contracts as involving gaming but not those many others, it would be acting contrary to Commission precedent and in an arbitrary way.

## 4. Do these contracts involve, relate to, or reference 'an activity that is unlawful under any State or Federal law' as described in Commission regulation 40.11(a)(1) and section 5c(c)(5)(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act?

No. The contracts solely involve the partisan affiliation of the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the U.S. Senate.

The contracts also do not involve unlawful activity because of state prohibitions against election 'wagering' or 'betting', or federal laws prohibiting interstate 'betting'. Two arguments below explain why.

First, because per the Special Rule, only the underlying event (Congressional control) should be considered in determining whether the contracts involve gaming. The application of the Special Rule with regards to this question is addressed at length in a separate comment, which also includes letters provided by our counsel, former CFTC General Counsels Jonathan Marcus and Dan Davis. (Public comment by Elie Mishory. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=70781.) Additional commenters on the matter include former MPD Director Josh Sterling, our director Timothy McDermott, as well as other public comments by former CFTC officials and industry actors such as Daniel Gorfine, Lewis Cohen, Tabet DiVito &amp; Rothstein, and Jeremy Weinstein. (Public comments 69737, 69687, 70755, 69736, 70765, and 69723.)

Second, taking a position in an event contract is not equivalent to, as states or the federal government may define it, 'wagering' or 'betting' which they prohibit. This is not true legally (interstate betting is illegal, and betting is illegal in many states; event contracts are legal in all jurisdictions) or in practice.

Taking a position in an event contract is also not equivalent to the unlawful activity such laws refer to, because such laws are not operative on CFTC-regulated products. Federal law definitions of gaming, betting, wagering carve out exemptions for CFTC-regulated products. (The Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 'do[es] not include…any transaction conducted on or subject to the rules of a registered entity or exempt board of trade under the Commodity Exchange Act'. 31 U.S.C. § 5362(1)(E) (2006).) Many states' gaming provisions also include such exemptions. (For example, Washington state RCW 21.30.030 clarifies that CFTC-regulated transactions are not affected by its anti-bucket shop provisions.) States' gaming provisions are preempted explicitly as well by the CFMA. (7 USC 2(a)(1) covers exclusive CFTC jurisdiction over futures and swaps, so any state laws that would purport to regulate or prohibit futures or swaps would be preempted.. The CEA also preempts state gaming laws with respect to derivative products that are excluded or exempt from the CEA. See 7 USC 16(e)(2) ("This Act shall supersede and preempt the application of any State or local law that prohibits or regulates gaming or the operation of bucket shops . . . in the case of --- (A) an electronic trading facility excluded under section 2(e) of this Act; and (B) an agreement, contract, or transaction that is excluded from this Act under [provisions of] the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, or exempted under section 4(c) of this Act.").) Even derivatives products that are excluded or exempted from CFTC regulation still preempt state gaming and bucket shop laws per the CFMA. (Ibid) It could not follow more plainly that CFTC-regulated derivatives have the same preemptive effect. Congress has repeatedly recognized that futures and other derivative contracts serve economic purposes and, therefore, state laws that purport to prohibit or regulate futures or derivative contracts (including gaming laws) do not violate the CEA and are preempted. All of this shows that Congress and the states understand that there is a critical distinction between betting and legitimate financial activity. Election contracts that are designed for hedging on a financial market constitute legitimate financial activity. Therefore, it would be incorrect to consider the contracts as involving unlawful activity. As these laws themselves recognize, they do not apply to contracts like Kalshi's.

A key purpose of the CEA and granting the CFTC exclusive jurisdiction over futures was to authorize and promote trading of futures contracts notwithstanding state laws that might purport to prohibit them as gambling. The only way in which state law is relevant is if the activity underlying the event contract violates state law, such as a contract on murder or state income tax evasion. (We note some commenters have compared these contracts as equivalent, hypothetically, to contracts on mass shootings. The analogy is clearly incorrect and is a gross misinterpretation of the statute.) In that case, Congress wanted to make sure that a futures contract would not legitimize that blatantly illegal activity without the Commission considering whether trading the contract would be contrary to the public interest. (Congress obviously would not be concerned about legitimizing elections. Even if the focus comes to legitimizing the trading on elections as part of the ultimate public interest analysis, the Commission has already crossed that bridge by long permitting market participants to trade such contracts pursuant to no action letters awarded to unregulated markets. The notion that allowing a regulated exchange to offer the contracts is what changes the public interest analysis is insupportable.)

As for the federal prohibition on interstate betting, the Wire Act is irrelevant here-it applies only to sports betting and wagering. Moreover, when Congress most recently addressed the intersection of gambling/gaming and the Internet, it carved out derivatives contracts (both on exchange and over the counter) from the definition of betting and wagering, thereby plainly recognizing that derivatives contracts serve economic purposes that distinguish them from gambling/gaming. (The Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 'do[es] not include…any transaction conducted on or subject to the rules of a registered entity or exempt board of trade under the Commodity Exchange Act'. 31 U.S.C. § 5362(1)(E) (2006).) Congress recognized this much earlier too, granting the CFTC exclusive jurisdiction over futures as noted above and expressly preempting state gaming laws in the CFMA. (7 USC 2(a)(1) covers exclusive CFTC jurisdiction over futures and swaps, so any state laws that would purport to regulate or prohibit futures or swaps would be preempted.. The CEA also preempts state gaming laws with respect to derivative products that are excluded or exempt from the CEA. See 7 USC 16(e)(2) ("This Act shall supersede and preempt the application of any State or local law that prohibits or regulates gaming or the operation of bucket shops . . . in the case of --- (A) an electronic trading facility excluded under section 2(e) of this Act; and (B) an agreement, contract, or transaction that is excluded from this Act under [provisions of] the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, or exempted under section 4(c) of this Act.").)

Additionally, many broad state gambling laws would define all event contracts as gaming, as well as many other futures, swaps, and options. States like New Hampshire, for example, define gambling as having 'to risk something of value upon a future contingent event not under one's control or influence.' (New Hampshire Rev Stat § 647:2(II)(d) (2017); see also Alaska Stat. § 11.66.280(3) ('gambling' means that a person stakes or risks something of value upon the outcome of a contest of chance or a future contingent event not under the person's control or influence, upon an agreement or understanding that that person or someone else will receive something of value in the event of a certain outcome'); Oregon Rev. Stat. § 167.117(7) (''Gambling' means that a person stakes or risks something of value upon the outcome of a contests of chance or a future contingent event not under the control or influence of the person . . .').) If the Commission were to find that the contracts involve unlawful activity on the theory that there are state laws (or a federal law) prohibiting gambling/wagering on elections, and that wagering is equivalent to taking a position on an event contract, that would mean that the Special Rule is triggered by any event contract because many state gambling laws prohibit wagering on the outcome of any future event. That interpretation was clearly not Congress' intent. Instead, Congress narrowly defined a small number of event contracts whose underlying event involves an unsavory activity that Congress did not want the CFTC to legitimize without evaluating whether trading a contract on that activity would be contrary to the public interest (as per the text, which isolates a selected set of enumerated events to target).

Time and time again, Congress and states have indicated that the Commission has the decision making power here and approval of Kalshi's contracts has no involvement with unlawful activity any more than an event contract on Gross Domestic Product or whether a bill becomes law. If the Commission chooses to isolate these contracts as involving unlawful activity but not those many others, it would be acting contrary to Commission precedent and in an arbitrary way.

## 5. In determining whether these contracts involve an activity that is unlawful under any State or Federal law, should the Commission be influenced by whether state laws permit betting on the outcome of elections or other political outcomes and/or by the prohibition of interstate betting under Federal law?

No. The contracts solely involve the partisan affiliation of the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the U.S. Senate.

This issue was addressed in the previous question's response. It has been copied here for ease. The contracts also do not involve unlawful activity because of state prohibitions against election 'wagering' or 'betting', or federal laws prohibiting interstate 'betting'. Two arguments below explain why.

First, because per the Special Rule, only the underlying event (Congressional control) should be considered in determining whether the contracts involve gaming. The application of the Special Rule with regards to this question is addressed at length in a separate comment, which also includes letters provided by our counsel, former CFTC General Counsels Jonathan Marcus and Dan Davis. (Public comment by Elie Mishory. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=70781.) Additional commenters on the matter include former MPD Director Josh Sterling, our director Timothy McDermott, as well as other public comments by former CFTC officials and industry actors such as Daniel Gorfine, Lewis Cohen, Tabet DiVito &amp; Rothstein, and Jeremy Weinstein. (Public comments 69737, 69687, 70755, 69736, 70765, and 69723.)

Second, taking a position in an event contract is not equivalent to, as states or the federal government may define it, 'wagering' or 'betting' which they prohibit. This is not true legally (interstate betting is illegal, and betting is illegal in many states; event contracts are legal in all jurisdictions) or in practice. As 'father of futures' Dr. Richard Sandor wrote in his comment letter,

A major misconception that still prevails among the public is the equivalence of gambling and speculation. Nothing could be farther from the truth. Gambling is an artificial, self-constructed risk created for recreation. Speculation is the assumption of risks that already exist in the real and financial markets. The recreational risk of gambling is not present until the casino or racetrack is built and wagers are accepted. On the other hand, risk in the production of good and services in the economy are real and will exist even in the absence of futures markets. The same can be said for equity and interest rate and risk. It seems reasonable to conclude the risks associated with policy changes from different election outcomes are most similar to the latter. The transfer of risk by hedgers would be real and the assumption of that risk by speculators would be proper. (Public comment by Richard Sandor. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=70792.)

Taking a position in an event contract is also not equivalent to the unlawful activity such laws refer to, because such laws are not operative on CFTC-regulated products. Federal law definitions of gaming, betting, wagering carve out exemptions for CFTC-regulated products. (The Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 'do[es] not include…any transaction conducted on or subject to the rules of a registered entity or exempt board of trade under the Commodity Exchange Act'. 31 U.S.C. § 5362(1)(E) (2006).) Many states' gaming provisions also include such exemptions. (For example, Washington state RCW 21.30.030 clarifies that CFTC-regulated transactions are not affected by its anti-bucket shop provisions.) States' gaming provisions are preempted explicitly as well by the CFMA. (7 USC 2(a)(1) covers exclusive CFTC jurisdiction over futures and swaps, so any state laws that would purport to regulate or prohibit futures or swaps would be preempted.. The CEA also preempts state gaming laws with respect to derivative products that are excluded or exempt from the CEA. See 7 USC 16(e)(2) ("This Act shall supersede and preempt the application of any State or local law that prohibits or regulates gaming or the operation of bucket shops . . . in the case of --- (A) an electronic trading facility excluded under section 2(e) of this Act; and (B) an agreement, contract, or transaction that is excluded from this Act under [provisions of] the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, or exempted under section 4(c) of this Act.").) Even derivatives products that are excluded or exempted from CFTC regulation still preempt state gaming and bucket shop laws per the CFMA. (Ibid) It could not follow more plainly that CFTC-regulated derivatives have the same preemptive effect. Congress has repeatedly recognized that futures and other derivative contracts serve economic purposes and, therefore, state laws that purport to prohibit or regulate futures or derivative contracts (including gaming laws) do not violate the CEA and are preempted. All of this shows that Congress and the states understand that there is a critical distinction between betting and legitimate financial activity. Election contracts that are designed for hedging on a financial market constitute legitimate financial activity. Therefore, it would be incorrect to consider the contracts as involving unlawful activity. As these laws themselves recognize, they do not apply to contracts like Kalshi's.

A key purpose of the CEA and granting the CFTC exclusive jurisdiction over futures was to authorize and promote trading of futures contracts notwithstanding state laws that might purport to prohibit them as gambling. The only way in which state law is relevant is if the activity underlying the event contract violates state law, such as a contract on murder or state income tax evasion. In that case, Congress wanted to make sure that a futures contract would not legitimize that activity without the Commission considering whether trading the contract would be contrary to the public interest. (Congress obviously would not be concerned about legitimizing elections. Even if the focus comes to legitimizing the trading on elections as part of the ultimate public interest analysis, the Commission has already crossed that bridge by long permitting market participants to trade such contracts pursuant to no action letters awarded to unregulated markets. The notion that allowing a regulated exchange to offer the contracts is what changes the public interest analysis is insupportable.)

As for the federal prohibition on interstate betting, the Wire Act is irrelevant here-it applies only to sports betting and wagering. Moreover, when Congress most recently addressed the intersection of gambling/gaming and the Internet, it carved out derivatives contracts (both on exchange and over the counter) from the definition of betting and wagering, thereby plainly recognizing that derivatives contracts serve economic purposes that distinguish them from gambling/gaming. (The Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 'do[es] not include…any transaction conducted on or subject to the rules of a registered entity or exempt board of trade under the Commodity Exchange Act'. 31 U.S.C. § 5362(1)(E) (2006).) Congress recognized this much earlier too, granting the CFTC exclusive jurisdiction over futures as noted above and expressly preempting state gaming laws in the CFMA. (7 USC 2(a)(1) covers exclusive CFTC jurisdiction over futures and swaps, so any state laws that would purport to regulate or prohibit futures or swaps would be preempted.. The CEA also preempts state gaming laws with respect to derivative products that are excluded or exempt from the CEA. See 7 USC 16(e)(2) ("This Act shall supersede and preempt the application of any State or local law that prohibits or regulates gaming or the operation of bucket shops . . . in the case of --- (A) an electronic trading facility excluded under section 2(e) of this Act; and (B) an agreement, contract, or transaction that is excluded from this Act under [provisions of] the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, or exempted under section 4(c) of this Act.").)

Additionally, many broad state gambling laws would define all event contracts as gaming, as well as many other futures, swaps, and options. States like New Hampshire, for example, define gambling as having 'to risk something of value upon a future contingent event not under one's control or influence.' (New Hampshire Rev Stat § 647:2(II)(d) (2017); see also Alaska Stat. § 11.66.280(3) ('gambling' means that a person stakes or risks something of value upon the outcome of a contest of chance or a future contingent event not under the person's control or influence, upon an agreement or understanding that that person or someone else will receive something of value in the event of a certain outcome'); Oregon Rev. Stat. § 167.117(7) (''Gambling' means that a person stakes or risks something of value upon the outcome of a contests of chance or a future contingent event not under the control or influence of the person . . .').) If the Commission were to find that the contract involve unlawful activity on the theory that there are state laws (or a federal law) prohibiting gambling/wagering on elections, and that wagering is equivalent to taking a position on an event contract, that would mean that the Special Rule is triggered by any event contract because many state gambling laws prohibit wagering on the outcome of any future event. That interpretation was clearly not Congress' intent. Instead, Congress narrowly defined a small number of event contracts whose underlying event involves an unsavory activity that Congress did not want the CFTC to legitimize without evaluating whether trading a contract on that activity would be contrary to the public interest (as per the text, which isolates a selected set of enumerated events to target).

Time and time again, Congress and states have indicated that the Commission has the decision making power here and approval of Kalshi's contract has no involvement with unlawful activity any more than an event contract on Gross Domestic Product or whether a bill becomes law. If the Commission chooses to isolate these contracts as involving unlawful activity but not those many others, it would be acting contrary to Commission precedent and in an arbitrary way.

6. Are the contracts substantively different from Nadex's previously proposed political event contracts such that the Commission's analysis should be different? For reference, please see 'CFTC Order Prohibiting North American Derivatives Exchange's Political Event Derivatives Contracts' (Apr. 2, 2012), available at https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/PressReleases/6224-12.

There are a number of important distinctions between these Contracts and the Nadex contracts: (i) the contemporary understanding of the contracts' value, economic and otherwise, is more robust, (ii) there is data available to the Commission today that was not available to it in 2012 to assist its assessment of the Contracts' economic purpose and hedging utility. It was for these reasons that Mark Wetjen, former Commissioner and Acting Chairman and who served when the agency ruled against Nadex, supports Kalshi's submission. (Public comment by Mark Wetjen. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=70771.)

First, the understanding of the scope and significance of how market participants face risk from elections and attempt to hedge and manage their risks is much greater today than it was when the Commission considered Nadex's contracts. Today, news articles frequently discuss election risk and limited hedging opportunities. (There are too many examples to cite. Some can be found at Refinitiv ('A US Election Hedge'), Barron's ('This Election Could Be Really Weird. Hedge Your Portfolio'), or Yahoo Finance ('How To Hedge Your Portfolio For The Election'), all from the last 5 years. Available at: https://www.refinitiv.com/en/the-big-conversation/episode-48-a-us-election-hedge, https://www.barrons.com/articles/this-election-could-be-really-weird-hedge-your-portfolio-51599130801, and  https://finance.yahoo.com/news/hedge-portfolio-election-173325198.html.) Studies and commenters have discussed how banks engage in such hedging, both using traditional instruments and over-the-counter products. (Public comment by Angelo Lisboa. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69666.) In recent years, CEOs use the word 'election' at very high rates on earnings calls near election time. (John Butters. 2020. 'More than one third of S&amp;P 500 companies are discussing the election on Q3 earnings calls.' Factset.) Additionally, there is now data on the correlation between perceived election outcomes and pricing of financial assets that were not available when the Commission considered Nadex. Many researchers utilized data from PredictIt to study the link between market based election outcome pricing, along with election polling and the impact on pricing financial assets. (Such as Snowberg, Zitzewitz, and Wolfers (2006); Zitzewitz and Wolfers (2016); and Jayachandran (2016). Available at: https://www.frbsf.org/economic-research/publications/working-papers/2006/08/, https://www.brookings.edu/research/what-do-financial-markets-think-of-the-2016-election/, and https://escholarship.org/content/qt25p4z52g/qt25p4z52g.pdf?t=krnmet.) They also consistently found that it was often more dynamic and accurate than polling. (Miller, Thomas W. 'Predicting the 2020 Presidential Election.' Data Science Quarterly . 2021.) These findings by academics have been replicated many times, as described in Kalshi's original submission at length.

Second, the understanding of the public interest factors of the contracts is very different today than it was when the Commission considered the Nadex contracts. Victoria University of Wellington's operation of its exchange pursuant to a CFTC no-action letter provided evidence and data from trading on these markets and other similar markets (including more local markets) over a period of close to eight years. PredictIt has traded more than a billion shares. (LinkedIn profile of Will Jennings, former PredictIt employee. https://www.linkedin.com/in/will-jennings-pi) Its markets were consistently referenced, in real time and in hindsight, as informative and useful by major news organizations like CNN , CNBC , Politico , Bloomberg , The Economist , The Wall Street Journal , The Washington Post , and across various sections of The New York Times like The Upshot , DealBook , opinion columns, and the technology section. The reliance on PredictIt demonstrates the public's interest and social value in its data across all spectrums of society. In addition, information generated from PredictIt's markets was repeatedly cited by prominent political officials and commentators. Examples include economists like Jason Furman, previously President Obama's Council of Economic Advisors Chair (who submitted a supportive comment letter which noted PredictIt's election market data was used while he was in the White House); Nobel Laureate Paul Krugman, a Professor at Graduate Center, CUNY and a columnist for The New York Times ; and data scientists/reporters like Nate Silver, founder and editor-in-chief of FiveThirtyEight . (Public comment letter by Jason Furman. Available at: https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69708.) (For the sake of brevity, a full list of citations in this section can be found at the end of this document.) All of this strong support for the contract's public interest was not available to the Commission when it considered Nadex.

Additionally, the fears driving the Nadex Order with respect to election integrity-that voters could be incentivized to switch votes given election markets-has never been realized or suggested. The complete lack of evidence for the concern in the Nadex Order , despite a massive growth in election trading postNadex , is highly probative. PredictIt traded over 1.2 billion shares from 2014 to the present. (LinkedIn profile of Will Jennings, former PredictIt employee. https://www.linkedin.com/in/will-jennings-pi) U.S. elections traded around $250 million between off-shore exchanges like InTrade and BetFair in 2012; by 2020, PredictIt and Betfair alone combined for nearly $1b in trading. (Full breakdown of volume at end of document.) The Commission's fear, speculative at the time, has been rebutted through recent history with materially similar market activity. For these reasons, the Commission's past - and speculative - concern that approving the Nadex contracts would create monetary incentives to vote for a particular candidate cannot be relied on again.

Finally, these markets have grown dramatically despite the Nadex Order . The public is very interested in the information provided by these markets, even when that information comes from unregulated or offshore sources. While market demand for a product is not sufficient alone to determine the public interest, it is undeniably an important factor that the Commission should consider in determining whether a contract is contrary to that interest. It is unlikely that the Commission would disagree that its many Core Principles and regulatory oversight lead to a safer market experience for participants. Accordingly, there is significant public interest in having these markets available on regulated exchanges.

Similarly, especially with regard to Congressional control contracts, it is important that market activity not be a detrimental or negative force. There are obvious benefits to market activity occurring under the sanitizing light of regulation-as Justice Louis Brandeis said, 'sunlight is said to be the best disinfectants.' (Brandeis, Louis. 'What Publicity Can Do.' 1914. Accessed via the website of the Louis D. Brandeis School of Law Library. Available at https://louisville.edu/law/library/special-collections/the-louis-d.-brandeis-collection/other-peoples-money-chapter-v) The demonstrated rapid growth of this activity is unlikely to abate absent significant actions from the Commission to prevent the activity, a tall task given constrained Commission resources, the breadth of these markets, and the ease of their creation. Accordingly, these markets will likely continue to exist. The question is whether they will exist also in a regulated market or remain just in the unregulated shadow market. This is of course not a reason to permit the contracts independently of the Contract's economic utility. But it is an undeniably important public interest consideration. Because the breadth of the current unregulated marketplace is a more recent development, this public interest consideration was not before the Commission when it considered Nadex.

The Exchange also notes that exchanges are not granted exclusive licenses to list products. If the Commission would allow these contracts, Nadex would generally be able to list the same contracts Kalshi is proposing today.

7. Are the contracts substantively different from Kalshi's previously proposed, and withdrawn, congressional control contracts? For reference, please see 'CFTC Announces Review and Comment Period of KalshiEX Proposed Congressional Control Contracts Under CFTC Regulation 40.11' (August 26, 2022), available at https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/PressReleases/8578-22.

Kalshi's contract was modified in response to Commission questions, the public comments, and Commission staff feedback. There are three changes to the contract:

1. An increase in the position limits from $25,000 for all participants to a tiered system for retail, institutions, and eligible contract participants that allows for potentially much higher limits.
2. An increase in the order size to 5000 contracts, from 1.
3. A list of political actors who are prohibited from trading were detailed.

Whether the proposed contract is 'substantively different' is a semantic matter. The contract serves broadly the same economic purpose but has been more narrowly tailored to promote bona fide hedging behavior and gate out potential insiders. In practice, the contract will be used less by smaller retail users compared to the previous submission. Kalshi's previous submission is still compliant with the Core Principles and the Act, and would serve the public interest by virtue of its hedging, price basing, and forecasting benefits.

What is clear and obvious is that this contract that is before the Commission, like the prior contract, can be used to hedge risk exposure to political control, and will serve as a price discovery tool for the market's pricing of the likelihood of the various outcomes of political control.

Further, just as the Special Rule for Event Contracts does not apply to the prior contract because the underlying event is not one of the enumerated events, so too it does not apply to this contract.

8. Do the contracts serve a hedging function? What standard should be used in reviewing the contracts' hedging function? Is it sufficient that a contract could theoretically be used for hedging, or should an exchange provide evidence of demonstrated need by likely hedgers in the market? How often must a contract be used for hedging or what percentage of market participants or open interest must represent hedging use in order for a contract to serve a hedging function?

Yes, the contracts serve a hedging function. The financial press frequently reports on how elections (and changes in election polling, no less) affect the prices of financial assets, well before any laws by the new Congress have been enacted. (Noel Randewich. 2020. 'S&amp;P 500 futures rise as U.S. election suggests less regulatory risk.' Reuters.) (Myra P. Saefong. 2020. 'Here's how the U.S. presidential election could shake up the oil market.' Marketwatch.) (Matthew Weaver. 2020. 'Congressional elections could impact commodity prices most, expert says.' Capital Press .) Academic research consistently finds a link between movements in election prediction markets and financial assets, as well as between polls and financial assets. (Such as Snowberg, Zitzewitz, and Wolfers (2006); Zitzewitz and Wolfers (2016); and Jayachandran (2016). Available at: https://www.frbsf.org/economic-research/publications/working-papers/2006/08/, https://www.brookings.edu/research/what-do-financial-markets-think-of-the-2016-election/, https://escholarship.org/content/qt25p4z52g/qt25p4z52g.pdf?t=krnmet.) Even though the exact consequences of elections are not certain, political parties make sufficiently credible commitments to changing government policies in a manner that market participants currently believe are predictable enough-they're already pricing in the risk and putting money on the line.

The remaining elements of the question can be unpacked as follows:

1. An assumption that the Commission should review a contract's hedging function.
2. Should the standard for hedging be theoretical use or demonstrated need?
- a. Must a contract's participants have a minimum required amount of hedging (either in absolute or percentage terms)?

The Exchange will address these seriatim. However, the Exchange notes that regardless of the standard, the contracts here passes: Kalshi has demonstrated hedging need. In its submission to DMO in March 2022, Kalshi provided many examples of consistent evidence of ongoing hedging in the public and private markets via testimony from market participants and academia. Many retail investors, small businesses, billion-dollar businesses, and members of industry provided comments testifying to their personal hedging use cases. These included those by Alex Keeney, Ali Partovi, Arvind S, Jun Sup Lee, Edward Makino, Ramin Ahmari, Valentin Perez, Donald Stalter, Alexander King, Kenn Butler, Vivek Ranadive, Thomas Dalton Combs, among so many others. (See comments 69612, 69608, 69671, 69647, 69696, 69669, 69725, 70770, 69709, 70776, 70757, 70767.)

There is nothing more Kalshi and potential hedgers could have done in order to demonstrate the hedging need this product fills.

## 1: Should the Commission review a contract's hedging function?

There is no requirement from Congress, nor mechanism by which, the Commission can or should determine hedging utility as a metric on its own outside of the public interest. However, a contract's hedging utility can be considered as supporting the public interest as part of the public interest consideration should the Commission find that a contract involves one of the enumerated activities of the Special Rule.

## 2: What standard should the Commission use, theoretical use or demonstrated need?

A contract's hedging utility may be an important consideration in favor of finding that a contract is not contrary to the public interest should the Commission find that it involves one of the enumerated activities of the Special Rule. Hedging is in the public interest and promoting risk mitigation is a core mission of the CFTC. The Exchange notes, however, that these two suggestions ('theoretical' versus 'demonstrated need') are more like opposite ends of a spectrum, and there are variations in between.

It should use a theoretical use standard. A demonstrated need standard could inhibit the creation of new products with smaller or less clear markets; has no clear mechanism by which it can be determined; and because a contract only theoretically being used for hedging is not contrary to the public interest.

It should not be missed that the standard implied in the last part of this question (some minimum required amount of hedging, in absolute or percentage terms) would be likely to have unintended consequences if imposed on the market.

1. This standard has not been imposed on any other contract in Commission history , including any event contract. There are only 90 million barrels of oil produced per day, but almost 1 billion barrels are traded on Chicago Mercantile Exchange's crude oil futures every day (not to mention other highly traded products, like Intercontinental Exchange's West Texas Intermediate or Brent contracts). (CME Crude Oil Futures Volume &amp; Open Interest. Available at https://www.cmegroup.com/markets/energy/crude-oil/light-sweet-crude.volume.html. ) The overwhelming majority of activity is not primary hedgers. Nonetheless, the market has clearly added value to the global financial system.
2. The percentage of the Contract's participants hedging will no doubt vary over time in a vibrant, dynamic marketplace as risks change.
3. Speculation is an accepted important use case for all contracts in the financial markets. Speculation on events of economic purpose is not equivalent to gaming or gambling, and has never been considered that. Non-hedgers help balance out any differences between short and long hedgers, and provide liquidity to the hedgers themselves. Without speculation, none of the major futures and derivatives markets would be as liquid as they are today, and thus as powerful in fulfilling the hedging utility as they are. Speculation improves a contract's hedging utility. Even in cases where the non-hedgers are not actually matching on the exchange with the hedgers, they are providing a valuable service to the hedgers. The price offered on an exchange is a function of many factors, including demand and liquidity-non-hedgers will demand a greater premium if they know it will be harder for them to exit their positions later if their needs change. So the presence of later non-hedgers willing to provide liquidity and trading volume is essential to encouraging the original round of liquidity providers to offer more competitive prices to the hedgers, since the original liquidity providers know that they will not have an issue exiting their positions later. As Commissioner Quintenz put it:

Whereas bettors participate in games of pure chance, whose sole purpose is to completely reward the winner and punish the loser for an outcome that would otherwise provide no economic utility (think roulette), speculators in the derivatives market participate in non-chance driven outcomes that have price forming impacts upon which legitimate businesses can hedge their activities and cash flows… The other factor which makes speculation different than pure-chance gambling is the price forming impact it has on markets which allow businesses to hedge their risk. (Quintenz, ErisX .)

## 9. Are there unique economic risks tied to the outcome of congressional control that cannot be hedged via derivative products on equities, debt, interest rates, tax rates, asset values, and other commodity prices?

The Commission's question can be taken to imply two different things, either that the other products are linked directly on the same risks that the contracts would be used for hedging, or that market participants can reasonably approximate the Contract's hedging utility via a melange of other instruments.

Assuming the former, the answer is yes, there are risks that cannot be currently hedged. First, as noted by Hehmeyer and other commenters, and in the Exchange's submission, there are significant direct, non-policy related economic risks, such as the risks imposed by political outcomes on the fortunes of media personalities, media consultants, and others with connections and ties to the party in power. These risks cannot be otherwise hedged by traditional products.

As discussed earlier, changes in general risk that a certain Congress could pose to various industries can be discerned well in advance of knowledge of the particular policies that may be implemented by that Congress and provide just as valid a hedging rationale. This difference results from the time horizon between the election cycle and the implementation of a new Congress' specific legislative agenda or its potential responses to current events. For example, following the election of Republicans into Congress in 2016, many publications speculated that trade policy would become more restrictive; however, it was not known if this would come in the form of new trade deals, re-negotiating existing trade agreements, new tarrifs (and if so, on what goods and at what level), international lawsuits, and more. Another event contract or future on taxes or public policy would not have been very helpful. However, the risk of a more restrictive policy was there because of who would win the election, exactly what Kalshi's contracts allow traders to hedge.

Another example is new legislation that would burden a market participant. Once the legislation draft is released, the impact will begin to be felt immediately (on assets, cash flows, and partnerships as market participants price in risk), making a hedge useless; the downside risk has already had much of its effect. Markets are forward looking, and hedging products should reflect that. Even just a statement by a politician can be very damaging for firms. (White, Spencer. 'Hillary Clinton Blog Post Hits Valeant Stock For 9% Loss Without Revealing New Policy.' Yahoo Finance. 2016.)

Additionally, a single market participant may face myriad risks from elections. Many firms and individuals are negatively affected by a suite of a party's policies, and thus wish to hedge the many different changes in risk through a single contract. For example, an oil company may wish to hedge the risk that a new Democratic government will come into office, because that government could not only impose new regulations on them but also change the composition of existing regulatory bodies and increase their labor costs (through raising the minimum wage, supporting unionization, or mandating greater health care benefits for employees). Only Kalshi's proposal lets them hedge the risk they actually face: Democratic government.

If the question is asking instead whether market participants can reasonably approximate the Contract's hedging utility via a melange of other instruments, the answer is they cannot. Many retail and small business market participants do not have access to these other instruments, and the inherent friction and transaction costs in arranging these types of complex proxy plays is prohibitive. It seems unlikely that the Commission would determine it in the public interest to solely rely on these tools that are inaccessible to many of the market participants who need risk management tools most. Additionally, the effectiveness of these baskets and combination of instruments to hedge the risk from political control is considerably less than a contract directly on political control.

Importantly, the question implies that its answer matters, but does not explain why it would. A reasonable inference is that the Commission is saying no new method of hedging a risk should be permitted if there are other existing methods of hedging that risk. Nowhere in the CEA or the Commission's Regulations is there such a standard. The Exchange hopes this is not the Commission's view, as it has not been the Exchange's experience when engaging with the Commission on prior contracts. For example, should the Commission say 'farmers can buy crop insurance therefore they should not have access to agricultural futures products'?

Furthermore, such an interpretation would be highly anti-competitive. Such an interpretation would mean that if one firm offers a contract on an event or a commodity, that no challenger should enter the market with a similar but different product to compete with it. In fact, such an interpretation would consistently punish novel or innovative products - in many cases, it is possible to construct a hedge using existing products, and attempting to do so might be expensive or incur excess basis risk. The fact that election risk has implications for other assets is, in fact, much of the justification for the contract's hedging utility and would work in concert with such assets. Many similar and competing products are listed by different exchanges in order to promote a vibrant and competitive marketplace for hedgers. This is also an important component of the contract's price discovery utility, discussed in a later question.

Such an interpretation would also curtail innovation. Innovation often happens through iterating on already successful products and ideas. As in the earlier example, the existence of insurance products would have inhibited the creation of futures. Innovation often requires creating new, and sometimes flawed, products in order to try and optimize use cases for market participants. Hedgers benefit when many exchanges are launching many different products to try and tailor to their needs; they suffer when the government limits their options. It's in the public interest for such innovation to occur, and for that to happen, the Commission should not take the view that this product should not be listed because it purportedly can be hedged through other means.

10. Are the economic consequences of congressional control predictable enough for a contract based on that control to serve a hedging function? Please provide tangible examples of commercial activity that can be hedged directly by the contracts or economic analysis that demonstrates the hedging utility of the contracts.

Yes. The financial press frequently reports on how elections (and changes in election polling, no less) affect the prices of financial assets, well before any laws by the new Congress have been

enacted. (Noel Randewich. 2020. 'S&amp;P 500 futures rise as U.S. election suggests less regulatory risk.' Reuters.) (Myra P. Saefong. 2020. 'Here's how the U.S. presidential election could shake up the oil market.' Marketwatch.) (Matthew Weaver. 2020. 'Congressional elections could impact commodity prices most, expert says.' Capital Press .) Academic research consistently finds a link between movements in election prediction markets and financial assets, as well as between polls and financial assets. (Such as Snowberg, Zitzewitz, and Wolfers (2006); Zitzewitz and Wolfers (2016); and Jayachandran (2016). Available at: https://www.frbsf.org/economic-research/publications/working-papers/2006/08/, https://www.brookings.edu/research/what-do-financial-markets-think-of-the-2016-election/, https://escholarship.org/content/qt25p4z52g/qt25p4z52g.pdf?t=krnmet.) Even though the exact consequences of elections are not certain, political parties make sufficiently credible commitments to changing government policies in a manner that market participants currently believe are predictable enough-they're already pricing in the risk and putting money on the line.

Investment banks routinely provide clients with advice on hedging through their private wealth divisions. This was described in a comment letter provided by a Managing Director of JPMorgan Chase. He wrote,

At JPMorgan, election risk is one of the largest risks our clients face, and they frequently engage us proactively on how to minimize it (hedge it, in other words). We work with and advise our clients on how to avoid that risk in their portfolios, especially when a client's cash flows or investments are very politically sensitive (for example, those in the coal industry are very concerned regarding election outcomes and policy expectations).

Since clients have different risk profiles, we do extensive research to fine-tune how these risks add up in our clients' positions. Our division employs a team of economists, at service to our partners, whose role in election years is heavily to research election probabilities as well as the impact election outcomes will have on equities and other investment products. We frequently host discussions with experts and clients on the relevant risks (including one coming up this week!) and publish research for both clients and the public. (Public comment by Angelo Lisboa. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69666.)

Investment banks also publish research to money managers (and the public, as the above mentions) that provides advice on how to hedge election risk in very specific ways. For example, JP Morgan Chase projected that a Democratic victory in 2020 would lead to a rally in 'left-behind' equities, such as 'European cyclicals, value, China-exposed stocks and renewables' and portfolios should be adjusted accordingly. (Ksenia Galouchko. 2020. 'JPMorgan Says Biden Victory Could Mark a Stock Market Shift.' Bloomberg.)

Many other comment letters by retail traders (Raphael Crawford-Marks, Scott Supak, Jacob Colbert, Jacob Faircloth, Andrew Karas, Joseph Turano, among many others), industry leaders (Jorge Paulo Lemann, Christopher Hehmeyer, Ron Conway, Seth Weinstein, among many others) and owners of politically sensitive businesses, (Continental Grain Company, Klarna, Greenwork, Upsolve, among many others) agreed and specifically discussed personal hedging use cases. (Public comments 69668, 69715, 69667, 69683, 69678, 69619, 69684, 69717, 69714, 69718, 69727, 69707, 69677, 69655.) Consider the comment by Scott Supak:

In the more immediate political future, the hedging benefits are obvious: since I'm no longer employed through my union, my wife no longer has health coverage through my union, so we must purchase (very expensive) health insurance from the marketplace. When it seems that Republicans are likely to take control, I can invest in that possibility, and hedge against the risk that her health insurance premiums will go up (or that the subsidy will get smaller, or that her ability to purchase insurance at all is taken away completely). (Public comment by Scott Supak. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69715)

Or the comment by Greg Sirotek, the co-founder and CEO of Moneytree Power, a startup dedicated to installing solar power:

Congress has an incredible influence over the future of the zero-carbon energy industry, particularly the solar industry…Given the respective differences in the two parties' positions on the importance of climate change mitigation, renewable energy development and the deficit, the risk profiles depending on which party is in power is vast. An event contract which pays out on the basis of Congressional control would allow our business to manage this previously unhedged risk. (Public comment by Greg Sirotek. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=70751.)

Lemann, a founder at 3G Capital (one of the world's largest investment firms) and a Board member of firms like AB-InBev and Kraft Heinz (some of the largest participants in traditional agricultural and metals futures), wrote:

These statements [the Nadex Order 's claims that there are no hedging or price basing use cases for elections] are inconsistent with the preponderance of the academic research on the subject and is inconsistent with the actual experience of anyone who has ever operated a business in or with the United States or traded on the global commodity markets. Experience and empirical observation show that elections have consequences, and these consequences directly create risk that can be hedged, and are factored into pricing commodities, financial assets, and services. (Public comment by Jorge Paulo Lemann. Available at: https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69684.)

Hehmeyer, former Chair of the National Futures Association and Board Member of the Futures Industry Association, added that many are affected regardless of policy outcomes :

For example, media personalities and companies face risk from Congressional control and elections. Early professionals hoping to work on Capitol Hill know there are far more positions available if their preferred party is victorious, as there are more Congressional offices and committee positions for them to staff. A consultancy that specializes in specific topic areas (for example, a green energy consultancy) may know the demand for their services will decline in anticipation that their issue of expertise is less likely to be operative under a split Congress. These risks occur regardless of the legislation that actually passes. There are billions of dollars at risk surrounding the outcome of Congressional control and elections. These risks can reasonably be expected to be managed through this contract on Congressional control. (Public comment by Christopher Hehmeyer. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69717&amp;SearchText=christopher.)

Although some commenters claimed election outcomes aren't predictable enough to be a useful hedge, that in no way contradicts or even diminishes those who say the opposite. At most , those commenters don't see hedging utility for themselves. But they cannot credibly say, especially given the comment file, that all the people who identify how they would use the contracts for hedging and managing their risk are mistaken or deficient in their ability to recognize risk and potential tools to manage or mitigate that risk. It would be arbitrary for the Commission to listen only to those who assert that there is no hedging use case for anyone when there are many others who state that they would use the product for themselves or their business.

As noted by Hehmeyer, there is sufficient impact from elections themselves, independent of the policy implications of political control, to not only justify these markets' economic utility but to make them valuable. In addition, markets already believe that the policy implications of elections themselves are sufficiently meaningful so as to be worth repricing assets, suggesting that they are predictable enough . Elections have vast consequences, which directly impact the likelihood of events happening or not happening (such as a bill being passed). While it is true that there is some uncertainty about the precise implementation of any given law by a new Congress (e.g., what exactly would the size of the stimulus checks be, what exactly would the new tax rate be), changes in probabilities are more than sufficient for hedging purposes. In addition, once the specifics of a policy risk have been announced (like the text of a bill), it's practically impossible to hedge because of the high cost now that the probability of the event has increased. It's important for a potential hedger to hedge in advance of the specifics of their risks being announced.

Changes in general risk also can provide a strong hedging need as opposed to the changes in risk of a specific outcome. If one party is in complete control of Congress, there is likely to be a change in general risk on carbon-based energy products and industries and an opposite change in general risk on renewable energy products and industries. While the specific policies implemented may be hard to know in advance, that change in general risk has been discussed at length in comment letters and is hedged extensively by larger institutions through complex products. (Public comment by Angelo Lisboa. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69666.)

Consider a concrete example of probabilistic change from the bond markets. Ten percent of the catastrophe bond market is in 'parametric triggers,' which means the bond pays out if certain meteorological triggers are met. The bond issuer does not know for certain whether the storm that meets the threshold will cause mass flooding, power outages and property damage (and conversely, it's possible that such damages could occur with a storm that does not meet the trigger thresholds) yet they use the bond to hedge nonetheless, because other features of the bond (hedging wind speed, namely) are more important to them than eliminating basis risk. Moreover, even if a wheat farmer buys a contract that pays out if the price of wheat falls below a certain threshold, there is still some uncertainty as to whether that event will harm them. It's possible that (a) wheat falls below a certain threshold because weather conditions are so great that there was a bumper crop and that the increase in their supply offset the loss in price, or (b) that the national price does not perfectly correlate with the local price they received-but they can use the product nevertheless.

11. Should the Commission consider contract and position sizes, size of trade requirements, and/or an exchange's intended customer base to help assess whether a contract is likely to be used for hedging in at least some cases? Does the requirement that all contracts listed on Kalshi must be fully-collateralized affect this analysis? Does the requirement that these contracts trade in multiples of 5000 and/or the position limits applicable to the contracts affect the analysis of the hedging utility of the contracts?

As noted earlier, outside of the public interest test, it is well settled that there is no required hedging test of the Contract, nor one provided by Congress, the rules, or the regulations. (Even in the public interest test, the Exchange notes that it is not at all settled that the original 'economic purpose test' was resurrected. The better reading is that Congress wanted the Commission to look at the variety of factors that are discussed in the CEA, its purpose, and the core principles.) Hedging should be an important consideration as part of a contract's public interest test should the Commission find that it involves one of the enumerated activities of the Special Rule, though it need not be the only consideration. Hedging is in the public interest and promoting risk mitigation is a core mission of the CFTC and Kalshi.

In addition, whatever standard the Commission uses, Kalshi's contracts are permissible. As evidenced by the public comments, the intended customer base is a mixture of hedgers, liquidity providers/market makers, forecasters, and speculators. This is consistent with the customer base of some of the world's largest commodity markets, and is thus wholly permissible. The Commission would be speculating to suggest otherwise given the large body of relevant evidence.

## 1: Should the Commission consider contract and position sizes, size of trade requirements, and/or an exchange's intended customer base to help assess whether a contract is likely to be used for hedging in at least some cases?

The Commission can consider factors beyond hedging utility in its public interest analysis, should it find that the contracts involve one of the enumerated activities of the Special Rule. However, it should not consider an exchange's intended customer base. This would be very speculative. Customer bases change over time. In many cases, an Exchange may use a product in order to attract a new customer base, so using past customers as the foundation for guessing what the 'intended customer base' is would be erroneous. If anything, this test would inappropriately penalize any novel product, as those are the products most likely to have an intended customer base most different from the existing user base. In short, there is no basis in law for the Commission to speculate about whether an Exchange's 'intended customer base' meets its standards.

Trade requirement sizes are also not relevant. It may affect the number of parties who use the contract, for what purpose, and in what capacity; but nonetheless, the contract cannot serve less of a hedging function because of the proposed trade size, which is neither exceptionally small nor large compared to derivatives products available on CFTC-regulated boards of trade.

## 2: Does the requirement that all contracts listed on Kalshi must be fully-collateralized affect this analysis?

Whether a contract is fully collateralized or margined should not influence the Commission's thinking. Further, in this case it would be irrelevant. The hedging use cases shown by the public comments and other evidence provided to the Commission by Kalshi show that there is no basis to conclude that full collateralization will deter or preclude hedging behavior. Individuals, small businesses, and medium-sized businesses are all interested in using the contracts as they stand and as Kalshi proposed. Accordingly, even if the Commission considered the full collateralization requirement, it would still easily pass the test.

There is one area where the full collateralization requirement becomes relevant and that is in regard to responsible innovation. As a foray into quasi-new territory, it makes sense that the Exchange has certified only a fully collateralized product. This requirement will prevent excessive leveraging, and while it certainly may be appropriate to have margin products on this in the future, as an initial product it is prudent and sensible to maintain Kalshi's requirement that the contract be fully collateralized. Indeed, Kalshi should be commended for its cautious approach to innovation.

## 3: Does the requirement that these contracts trade in multiples of 5000 and/or the position limits applicable to the contracts affect the analysis of the hedging utility of the contracts?

No. As discussed earlier, trade requirement sizes are not relevant. It may affect the number of parties who use the contract, for what purpose, and in what capacity; but nonetheless, the contract cannot serve less of a hedging function because of the proposed trade size, which is neither exceptionally small nor large compared to derivatives products available on CFTC-regulated boards of trade.

12. Should the Commission consider the contract design and payout to help assess the hedging utility of the contract? For example, are binary contracts useful for hedging nonbinary economic events?

## 1: Should the Commission consider the contract design and payout when trying to assess the economic utility of the contract?

As noted in previous responses, outside of the public interest test, there is no required hedging test of the Contract, nor one provided by Congress, the rules, or the regulations. Hedging may be an important consideration as part of a contract's public interest test should the Commission find that it involves one of the enumerated activities of the Special Rule, though it need not be its only consideration as part of that test. Hedging is in the public interest and promoting risk mitigation is a core mission of the CFTC.

In addition, as argued above, the Commission should not speculate about the exact amount or percentage of total trading that will be used to hedge. Instead, it should consider whether there are hedging use cases. It is not contrary to the public interest for the contracts to be utilized for hedging as often as the market sees fit to hedge-many contracts listed by other exchanges are traded very little at all.

In fact, it is in the public's interest for the market to determine whether or not a contract design is appropriate for hedging, not the Commission. If the contract design is a poor fit for hedging

needs-which it does not appear to be, especially given the many public comments by retail, small businesses, and industry in support-then Kalshi will attract fewer participants and in the future will amend the contract structure to improve. The incentives of the Exchange and hedgers are aligned. Substituting the Commission's judgment for the market's would short-circuit that valuable process. Accordingly, the Commission's inquiry into hedging as part of its public interest inquiry should be whether the contracts can be used for hedging. As noted, however, the contracts here have significant hedging utility that would pass any of these tests.

Moreover, different firms have different hedging needs, and different structures can best meet those needs. What works for one firm may not work best for another firm. As a result, the Commission should not attempt to speculate about whether a particular structure would work, as they may miss many firms for whom an alternative structure is better. The utility of the market is that there exists a profit incentive to create products for even niche groups of buyers, and insofar as private firms are far closer to their potential customer base than a government agency which does not interact with them on a daily basis (unlike an exchange), it would be highly inappropriate for the Commission to impose its judgment about whether a product's structure meets potential customer's needs. It's in the public interest to permit innovative contracts that they may use.

## 2: Are binary contracts useful for hedging nonbinary economic events?

On a superficial level, Congressional control is one of the most true 'binary' events in the world: either the Republicans win or the Democrats win. While the margin in each chamber certainly matters (a 53-Democrat Senate does look different from a 50-Democrat Senate), there is a sharp, binary, discontinuity in economic effects when control tips from one party to another.

Perhaps the Commission might argue that while Congressional control is binary, the effects of Congressional control are non-binary. Some people (like energy firms) might be affected a lot, whereas other people (like an IT consultancy) might be affected relatively less. Then there exists a continuum between the energy firm and the IT consultant of people affected. However, it does not follow that binary events cannot be a suitable tool for hedging since the effects are still caused by the binary control.

But more importantly, binary products are still capable of hedging non-binary events. The Commission has allowed binaries on the federal funds rate on the Chicago Board of Trade, even though it is self-evidently true that some people are hurt (or helped) by changes in interest rates more than others. (Hunt, Katherine. 'CBOT to launch binary options on target federal funds rate.' MarketWatch . 2006.) The Commission has allowed event binaries on monthly inflation prints, even though the Consumer Price Index is a continuous distribution of real numbers. Hundreds of millions of dollars are traded annually on binary parametric trigger catastrophe bonds, even though the economic effects of such catastrophes are far from binary. And traders hedge probabilities, not absolutes. Accordingly, binary products are perfectly compatible as a hedging device with non-binary economic events.

13. Do the contracts serve a price-basing function? For example, could they form the basis of pricing a commercial transaction in a physical commodity, financial asset, or service?

Yes. As discussed earlier, the market frequently reprices assets on the basis of changes in election expectations and election outcomes. (Noel Randewich. 2020. 'S&amp;P 500 futures rise as U.S. election suggests less regulatory risk.' Reuters.) (Myra P. Saefong. 2020. 'Here's how the U.S. presidential election could shake up the oil market.' Marketwatch.) (Matthew Weaver. 2020. 'Congressional elections could impact commodity prices most, expert says.' Capital Press .) Evidence abounds from the market, the financial press, and academia.

In 2012, more than two dozen economists signed a letter to the Commission supporting Nadex's submission that argued as much. Led by the late Nobel Laureate Kenneth Arrow in that 2012 letter, they wrote:

Political event futures facilitate price discovery in other asset markets. One of the findings of [our] research is that firms and industries are exposed to political and policy risk. Political event futures provide investors with a market-based assessment of outcome probabilities, which reduces investors' uncertainty when trading other assets. (Nadex public comment by Zitzewitz et al. Available at https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/stellent/groups/public/@rulesandproducts/documents/ifdocs/ericzitzewitzltr0 20312.pdf.)

Many economists have done the same for Kalshi, including Nobel Laureate Robert J. Shiller, Phillip Tetlock, Justin Wolfers, Scott Sumner, Michael Abramowicz, Joseph Grundfest, Alex Tabarrok, Michael Gibbs, Jason Furman, David Pennock, Harry Crane, David Rothschild, Koleman Strumpf, Ryan Oprea, and others. (See public comments 70761, 69708, and 69735.) A letter signed by Pennock, Crane, Rothschild, and Strumpf argued,

Prediction market prices in political and policy events would help facilitate price discovery in a wide-range of asset markets, affecting the entire economy (note that pricing is freely available to non-traders). Political and policy events matter: they expose a wide-variety of businesses to risk that traditional financial markets have trouble pricing. A robust set of markets for political and policy events could price that risk, and, if they were allowed to flourish, could eventually grow to provide hedges where uncertainty is particularly acute. (Public comment by David Rothschild. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69735.)

The contracts can obviously be used to price MIAX's corporate tax futures and Kalshi's other political event markets related to bills passing, government shutdowns, and the debt ceiling. They can also be used to price other non-products, and election probabilities frequently are, as discussed above and in Kalshi's submission. For example, they can be used to help price economic event contracts. Investment banks provide clients and the public with recommendations on how Congressional outcomes affect macroeconomic forecasts. For example, Morgan Stanley cited the chance of stimulus along with infrastructure spending and corporate tax changes as a vehicle for a 'blue wave' leading to a weaker dollar, lower interest rates, stronger GDP growth and lower bond prices. (Morgan Stanley. 2020. 'A Revised Guide to Economic Policy Paths &amp; Market Impacts'.) (Morgan Stanley. 2020. '2020 US Election Preview: 5 Themes to Watch for Investors.') The Exchange provided many specific use cases and pricing analysis in its original submission.

Many also stated as much in public comments, including Flip Idiot, Victor Jacobsson, Angelo Lisboa, Peter Kempthorne, Seth Weinstein, David Pollard, David Trinh, Eriz Zitzewitz, James Cust, Caesar Tabet, Reed Newell, Jorge Paulo Lemann, Sebastian Strauss, Christopher Hehmeyer, Ron Conway, and Margaret Stumpp. As Stumpp, a senior vice president at Prudential Financial and a co-founder of Quantitative Management Associates, wrote,

…a well functioning market for contingent political outcomes should improve the prices at which other securities (eg, stocks, bonds, options, etc…) trade. This reduces uncertainty, enhances capital market liquidity, and improves the efficiency by lowering uncertainty. (Public comment by Margaret Stumpp. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69722.)

Consider the following example: a junior investment bank has been instructed to price a security. That price is reflective of the stocks' net present value, itself a reflection of future expected profits. This includes political risk. If that banker knew with certainty that Republicans will take control of Congress, for example, and corporate taxes will not be raised, she would price the security higher than otherwise. Kalshi's contracts would help her in doing so.

14. Are the contracts contrary to the public interest? Why or why not?

No.

## 1: The contracts have a strong economic purpose.

The hedging and price basing use cases are myriad and would allow individuals to take advantage of a product that is currently strongly in demand. Elections cause extremely large economic impacts and are some of the biggest risks that many businesses will ever face. This is detailed at great length in Kalshi's submission and has been validated by dozens of public comments from retail, business, academia, and members of industry, including Kevin Standridge, Sam Altman, Geoff Ralston, Robert Orr, Valentin Perez, Robin Hanson, James Bailey, Rohan Palvulri, Jason Crwaford, Dustin Moskovitz, Andrew N, and James Angel.

## 2: The contracts would serve as useful tools for voters, the media, and the public that would fight disinformation, improve election integrity, and improve decision making including policy making

The demand for accurate information surrounding elections is enormous - and valuable. This is why so many Americans turn to election models and updates offered by FiveThirtyEight , The New York Times , and The Economist around election time for advanced models that incorporate information. Its markets are consistently referenced as informative and useful by major, credible news organizations like CNN , CNBC , Politico , Bloomberg , The Economist , The Wall Street Journal , The Washington Post , and The New York Times , across sections like The Upshot , DealBook , opinion columns, and the technology section. In addition, Predictit has repeatedly been cited by prominent political officials and thinkers. Examples include economists like Jason Furman, previously President Obama's Council of Economic Advisors Chair (who submitted a comment letter detailing election markets use while he was in the Administration); Nobel Laureate Paul Krugman, a Professor at The Graduate Center and a columnist for The New York Times ; and data scientists/reporters like Nate Silver, founder and editor-in-chief of FiveThirtyEight. ((For the sake of brevity, a full list of citations in this section can be found at the end of this document.) (Public comment letter by Jason Furman. Available at: https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69708.))

In a public comment, Furman also emphasized the importance of election markets for policy making. As he wrote,

…in the White House I, along with other members of the economic team, would regularly refer to prediction markets on electoral outcomes and specific events to help inform our understanding of how political and economic developments would affect economic policymaking. In understanding the risks of a government shutdown or debt limit showdown, for example, it would be helpful to understand what informed traders with money at stake would expect-a method of understanding probabilities that research has consistently shown is superior to other ways of summarizing and updating based on information. (Ibid)

Professor Furman went on to detail the other benefits for the contract, including helping academic researchers and educational benefits, a point also made by others, including Sebastian Strauss. PredictIt also has been used to promote civic engagement by undergraduates. Berg and Chambers (2016) found that using prediction markets, including PredictIt, increased user interest in civics and user news consumption. (Berg &amp; Chambers. Bet Out the Vote: Prediction Markets as a Tool to Promote Undergraduate Political Engagement . 2018. Journal of Political Science Education.)

The preponderance of the academic literature suggests that existing media has misaligned incentives when it comes to reporting on a given party's chances of political control. This often results in bad reporting. For example, University of Pennsylvania professor Philip Tetlock evaluated the statements made by pundits and found that 15 percent of predictions claimed to be 'impossible' did indeed occur and 27 percent of predictions claimed to be a 'sure thing' did not. (Philip Tetlock. 'Expert Political Judgment'. 2005.)

By providing an instant check against pundits, a market-based price created by the contracts can aid information aggregation for the public. For the numerically-inclined or the financially-minded, a viewer can see that one commentator is asserting that candidate X is a 'sure thing' but the Kalshi contract gives them only (e.g.) a 20% chance of winning. They now have a competing alternative to that pundit's information.

Markets tend to be more accurate than any pundit or forecasting alternatives. The efficient, price-discovering nature of markets in a wide range of contexts is a well-substantiated finding in academic research. The collective wisdom of many people who have a direct monetary stake in the outcome results in a valuable price signal. Weather derivatives and agricultural futures are better at predicting the weather than meteorologists. Markets trading on the reproducibility of scientific research are better at discovering which papers will reproduce than experts, who do no better than chance. Most importantly, research studying IEM and PredictIt have confirmed that markets provide more accurate information than traditional forecasting methods.

Kalshi's contracts would provide a visible, well-trusted benchmark against which to evaluate a pundit's predictive power. As Professor Tetlock observed, 'prudent consumers should become suspicious' when they confront a public record of poor performance relative to the market. In Tetlock's words, 'Unadjusted ex ante forecasting performance tells consumers in the media, business, and government what most want to know: how good are these guys in telling us what will happen next?' (Ibid)

## 3: The contracts would not serve as threats to either election integrity or the perception thereof; instead, it would improve them both.

## Not threatening election integrity

It is important for the Commission to engage with the evidence on election integrity rather than speculate. The Nadex Order ' s suggestion that voters could be incentivized to switch their votes, and thus harm election integrity, was outright speculative in 2012, and has since been disproven by PredictIt's success without any claim of, let alone proof of, election impropriety driven by those markets. Today, election trading remains alive and well in other democracies like the United Kingdom, Australia, Ireland, and New Zealand (iPredict, the New Zealand political trading exchange, is no longer in operation, but was following the Nadex Order .) , without documented attempts at-let alone successful-distortion of the electoral process. Several commenters confirmed this, including Eric Crampton, the academic advisor to iPredict, a New Zealand based political prediction market:

What experience we had with iPredict suggests CFTC really doesn't have anything substantial to worry about in allowing contracts on political events. If anything, they heightened voter engagement. The CE [Chief Executive] of iPredict even featured on the nightly news during the election, giving the latest on election market prices. And for that brief period, whenever blowhard partisans insisted that some outcome was going to happen, people could just point to the iPredict price on the event and ask them why they thought that price was wrong, and whether they'd actually put their money where their mouth was. It was a remarkable era. iPredict inflation forecasts (they also had markets on inflation going out several years - it was so very good) wound up being noted in our Reserve Bank's Monetary Policy Statements. I desperately miss it. I envy the opportunities Americans could have if CFTC takes a sensible approach to regulation. (Public comment by Eric Crampton. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69738.)

## Or Dustin Moskovitz, a co-founder of Facebook and founder of Asana:

Of course, it's important to validate that these contracts would not conflict with the public interest, and specifically the integrity of our elections. I am confident, however, they would not do so. Similar markets not only exist in many liberal democracies like the UK, but create a thriving scene that actually encourages voter participation and engagement. (Public comment by Dustin Moskovitz. Available athttps://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69716.)

References to other political markets without integrity issues were made by many commenters, including, in addition to the above, Justin Xavier Geraghty, Upsolve founder Rohan Pavuluri, People's Policy Project founder Matt Bruenig, Zvi Mowshowitz, Roots of Progress founder Jason Crawford, macro analyst Sebastian Strauss, Quantitative Management Associates co-founder Margaret Stumpp, and New York University Law School professor Max Raskin, among others.

The economic impacts of elections themselves dwarf the value of Kalshi's contracts many, many times over. Likely trillions in stock value are deeply dependent on elections; entire sectors, firms, and places can be favored by a candidate for office; and almost every actor in the economy is directly affected by tax rates. Elections already have billions in consequences for retail, small businesses, and industry, dwarfing the value of any Kalshi contract, and yet attempts at manipulation are unlikely, and successful manipulation even more so, thanks to the large, decentralized nature of elections, strong political norms, and laws protecting the vote. These contracts do not change, much less materially change the fact that individuals already have large stakes in election outcomes.

The only groups that can directly affect the leadership decisions are the U.S. Senate and U.S. House of Representatives. Members of these groups are extremely unlikely to attempt intentional manipulation of the leadership of their chambers merely to settle the contracts a certain way. Their finances are heavily monitored and subject to public disclosure and scrutiny, and Kalshi does not permit them, their close associates, or families to trade. Kalshi flags them and other politically exposed persons in the Know-Your-Customer authorization. Members of Congress also have a sworn duty to represent their constituents and have strong incentives not to manipulate electoral processes for private gain. Other related officials (like election officials, vote counters) also take such oaths and are heavily monitored because of the strong public interest in maintaining election integrity. This should clarify any claim that this could de-legitimize elections internal to Congress itself.

As further evidence, consider the history of political control contracts. University of Michigan professor Paul Rhode and Wake Forest professor Koleman Strumpf conducted a systematic review of the history of prediction markets both domestically and abroad, documenting their emergence back to '16th century Italy, 18th century Britain and Ireland, 19th century Canada and 20th century Australia and Singapore.' (Paul Rhode and Koleman Strumpf. 2012. 'The Long History of Political Betting Markets: An International Perspective.' Strumpf also was a signatory to a supportive public comment. See Public comment 69735. Available at: https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69735&amp;SearchText) (Paul Rhode and Koleman Strumpf. 2003. 'Historical Prediction Markets: Wagering on Presidential Elections'.) In the United States, they were popular from the post-Civil War period until the Great Depression tarnished the image of Wall Street in the public imagination. They wrote,

Although vast sums of money were at stake, we are not aware of any evidence that the political process was seriously corrupted by the presence of a wagering market. This analysis suggests many current concerns about the appropriateness of prediction markets are not well founded in the historical record. (Paul Rhode and Coleman Strumpf. 2003. 'Historical Prediction Markets: Wagering on Presidential Elections'.)

## Prices are not able to be manipulated to the give the false impression of momentum

One may also imagine that a coordinated group of individuals may conspire to manipulate market prices to give the false impression of candidate 'momentum,' thus potentially harming the democratic process. This concern has been tested several times by researchers, who have concluded that all attempts at manipulation have failed.

Koleman and Strumpf in a later paper examined previous American political prediction markets and found that no previous effort at manipulation was capable of sustaining anything more than fleeting price movements. They wrote, 'we find little evidence that political stock markets can be systematically manipulated beyond short time periods.' (Paul Rhode and Koleman Strumpf. 2005. 'Manipulating Political Stock Markets: A Field Experiment and a Century of Observational Data.') Moreover, the markets examined were much smaller and thus even more prone to manipulation than a fully regulated, liquid market like a DCM. As a result, manipulation on Kalshi's market is even less plausible. Indeed, as George Mason University professor Robin Hanson and University of California at Santa Barbara professor Ryan Oprea found, one major reason why political contracts are resistant to manipulation attempts is that any attempt to manipulate prices induces informed counter-parties to enter on the other side of the market. (Robin Hanson and Ryan Oprea. 2008. 'A Manipulator Can Aid Prediction Market Accuracy.' Economica .) In fact, the greater the attempts to jack up one side's prices, the greater the returns to becoming an informed trader. As University of Michigan economist Justin Wolfers and Dartmouth economist Eric Zitzewitz wrote regarding previous political contracts, 'none of these attempts at manipulation had a discernible effect on prices, except during a short transition phase.' (Justin Wolfers and Eric Zitzewitz. 2006. 'Prediction Markets in Theory and Practice'.) This finding was also supported by over two dozen economists in their 2012 Nadex letter and by many letters supporting Kalshi's submission. (Nadex public comment by Zitzewitz et al. Available at https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/stellent/groups/public/@rulesandproducts/documents/ifdocs/ericzitzewitzltr0 20312.pdf.) (For example, the public comment by David Rothschild and company. Available at: https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69735&amp;SearchText=.)

Importantly, the fact that these contracts are already traded on Commission-sanctioned unregistered trading venues in the United States by Americans should demonstrate that they do not cause manipulation and that the markets are safe. In 2014, PredictIt, a new unregistered trading venue dedicated to election and political event contracts, received a no-action letter.

Since then, it has hosted more than $1B in contracts traded and has more than a quarter of a million registered users. (LinkedIn profile of former PredictIt employee: 'Oversaw company growth of nearly 400% - from roughly 50,000 registered users to more than 250,000 registered users, and over 1.2 billion shares traded on PredictIt's market exchange.' https://www.linkedin.com/in/will-jennings-pi/)

This information -that hundreds of millions of dollars can be traded on political control contracts without triggering manipulation - was not available to the Commission the last time it considered similar event contracts in 2012. Although another political contract trading venue, the Iowa Electronics Market, received a no action letter in 1992, IEM is smaller and harder to access by individuals not associated with the University of Iowa. Now, far more money is known to have been traded on election outcomes.

## The contracts would combat illegal behavior, improving the perception of election integrity

Americans readily access offshore platforms using a virtual private network such as Betfair. (Comment letter by policy commentator Matt Bruenig. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69670.) Betfair had more than $500 million traded on the 2020 election. (See end of document.) These platforms are not registered with the Commission as DCMs, but frequently host such markets. There are no indications that the markets caused or induced an attempt to manipulate elections, let alone a successful manipulation. However, if the Commission is concerned that election markets could nevertheless create election integrity threats, it is imperative to shift trading to an exchange compliant with the Core Principles, with insider trading protections, surveillance, and KYC. In this way, among others, approving the contracts would improve, not harm, election integrity and the perception of it.

As part of the Exchange's KYC verification and monitoring system, the Exchange also cross-checks applicants against comprehensive databases. In particular, the Exchange will check whether any Members trading on these contracts are on databases of Politically Engaged Persons. The Exchange further cross checks applicants against databases of family members and close associates of Politically Engaged Persons. These checks help to further reduce the potential for trading violations and further increase the integrity of this Contract.

## The contracts would promote the public perception in election integrity by providing an accurate and competing tool for election forecasting

As described in detail in the second part of this question's response, there is immense social value in accurate election forecasts. This will fight disinformation and promote truth with politics, increasing voter confidence and engagement.

## Decreasing Partisanship

Studies consistently show that polarization and partisanship has increased dramatically in the last few decades: every year, greater numbers of people say they believe people from the opposite party are 'immoral' and express other hostile sentiments. More concerning than mere hostility is how partisan antipathy can create alternative sets of facts--voters from different parties simply believe two sets of facts about the world. It is from this miasma where conspiracy theories about stolen elections emerge that damage the electoral process.

Prediction markets can help remedy this problem. Economists John Bullock, Alan Gerber, Seth Hill, Gregory Huber conducted an experiment in 2013 and found that partisan gap in beliefs (e.g. if Republicans believe a statement is true with probability 80%, and Democrats believe it with probability 35%, then the partisan gap is 45 percentage points) shrunk by a shocking 55 percent when participants were given a financial incentive for being right. (John Bullock, Alan Gerber, Seth Hill, Gregory Huber. 2013. 'Partisan Bias in Factual Beliefs about Politics.') If they were given a lesser financial prize for answering 'unsure' (versus none for being wrong and a greater amount for getting it correct), the gap shrunk by about 80 percent.

The reasoning roughly tracks as follows: when no money is at stake, people conflate their beliefs as preferences. For example, a highly partisan liberal may say that a Democratic Party candidate is definitely going to win the 2024 presidential elections this year (a belief), when in reality they merely want the Democrat to win the championship (a preference). However, that same individual when challenged to trade money on that 'definite' prediction will re-evaluate and calculate the odds and decide whether or not they should take that trade. In short, when no money is at stake, people express beliefs as mere signaling, lending itself to heavy partisan bias. When money is at stake, they are able to differentiate their beliefs from their preferences. In other words, the partisan reality gap shrinks, and individuals who trade on election markets become more attune to facts and less to partisan groupthink.

In conclusion, the contracts are not contrary to the public interest; rather, it strongly supports the public interest, as demonstrated by the evidence above. The contracts will improve asset pricing, provide risk management opportunities, enhance election integrity and trust, and shift trading activity to regulated exchanges.

15. Could the trading of these or other political control or election-based contracts affect the integrity of elections or elections within a chamber of Congress? Could they affect the perception of the integrity of elections or elections within a chamber of Congress?

No. The benefits that Kalshi's contracts will have on the electoral and political process, as well as reasons why it will not have a negative effect, are also discussed in the prior question's response. Many of those same arguments are repeated here for ease and clarity, organized to suit this question.

## 1: The contracts will not harm election integrity or the perception of election integrity

It is important for the Commission to engage with the evidence on election integrity rather than speculate. The Nadex Order's suggestion that voters could be incentivized to switch their votes, and thus harm election integrity, was outright speculative in 2012, and has since been disproven by PredictIt's success without any claim of, let alone proof of, election impropriety driven by those markets. Today, election trading remains alive and well in other democracies like the United Kingdom, Australia, Ireland, and New Zealand (iPredict, the New Zealand political trading exchange, is no longer in operation, but was following the Nadex Order .) , without documented attempts at-let alone successful-distortion of the electoral process. Several commenters confirmed this, including Eric Crampton, the academic advisor to iPredict, a New Zealand based political prediction market:

What experience we had with iPredict suggests CFTC really doesn't have anything substantial to worry about in allowing contracts on political events. If anything, they heightened voter engagement. The CE [Chief Executive] of iPredict even featured on the nightly news during the election, giving the latest on election market prices. And for that brief period, whenever blowhard partisans insisted that some outcome was going to happen, people could just point to the iPredict price on the event and ask them why they thought that price was wrong, and whether they'd actually put their money where their mouth was. It was a remarkable era. iPredict inflation forecasts (they also had markets on inflation going out several years - it was so very good) wound up being noted in our Reserve Bank's Monetary Policy Statements. I desperately miss it. I envy the opportunities Americans could have if CFTC takes a sensible approach to regulation. (Public comment by Eric Crampton. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69738.)

## Or Dustin Moskovitz, a co-founder of Facebook and founder of Asana:

Of course, it's important to validate that these contracts would not conflict with the public interest, and specifically the integrity of our elections. I am confident, however, they would not do so. Similar markets not only exist in many liberal democracies like the UK, but create a thriving scene that actually encourages voter participation and engagement. (Public comment by Dustin Moskovitz. Available athttps://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69716.)

References to other political markets without integrity issues were made by many commenters, including, in addition to the above, Justin Xavier Geraghty, Upsolve founder Rohan Pavuluri, People's Policy Project founder Matt Bruenig, Zvi Mowshowitz, Roots of Progress founder Jason Crawford, macro analyst Sebastian Strauss, Quantitative Management Associates co-founder Margaret Stumpp, and New York University Law School professor Max Raskin, among others.

The economic impacts of elections themselves dwarf the value of Kalshi's contracts many, many times over. Likely trillions in stock value are deeply dependent on elections; entire sectors, firms, and places can be favored by a candidate for office; and almost every actor in the economy is directly affected by tax rates. Elections already have billions in consequences for retail, small businesses, and industry, dwarfing the value of any Kalshi contract, and yet attempts at manipulation are unlikely, and successful manipulation even more so, thanks to the large, decentralized nature of elections, strong political norms, and laws protecting the vote. These contracts do not change, much less materially change the fact that individuals already have large stakes in election outcomes.

The only groups that can directly affect the leadership decisions are the U.S. Senate and U.S. House of Representatives. Members of these groups are extremely unlikely to attempt intentional manipulation of the leadership of their chambers merely to settle the contracts a certain way. Their finances are heavily monitored and subject to public disclosure and scrutiny, and Kalshi does not permit them, their close associates, or families to trade. Kalshi flags them and other politically exposed persons in the Know-Your-Customer authorization. Members of Congress also have a sworn duty to represent their constituents and have strong incentives not to manipulate electoral processes for private gain. Other related officials (like election officials, vote counters) also take such oaths and are heavily monitored because of the strong public interest in maintaining election integrity. This should clarify any claim that this could de-legitimize elections internal to Congress itself.

As further evidence, consider the history of political control contracts. University of Michigan professor Paul Rhode and Wake Forest professor Koleman Strumpf conducted a systematic review of the history of prediction markets both domestically and abroad, documenting their emergence back to '16th century Italy, 18th century Britain and Ireland, 19th century Canada and 20th century Australia and Singapore.' (Paul Rhode and Koleman Strumpf. 2012. 'The Long History of Political Betting Markets: An International Perspective.' Strumpf also was a signatory to a supportive public comment. See Public comment 69735. Available at: https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69735&amp;SearchText) (Paul Rhode and Koleman Strumpf. 2003. 'Historical Prediction Markets: Wagering on Presidential Elections'.) In the United States, they were popular from the post-Civil War period until the Great Depression tarnished the image of Wall Street in the public imagination.. They wrote,

Although vast sums of money were at stake, we are not aware of any evidence that the political process was seriously corrupted by the presence of a wagering market. This analysis suggests many current concerns about the appropriateness of prediction markets are not well founded in the historical record. (Paul Rhode and Coleman Strumpf. 2003. 'Historical Prediction Markets: Wagering on Presidential Elections'.)

One may also imagine that a coordinated group of individuals may conspire to manipulate market prices to give the false impression of candidate 'momentum,' thus potentially harming the democratic process. This concern has been tested several times by researchers, who have concluded that all attempts at manipulation have failed.

Koleman and Strumpf in a later paper examined previous American political prediction markets and found that no previous effort at manipulation was capable of sustaining anything more than fleeting price movements. They wrote, 'we find little evidence that political stock markets can be systematically manipulated beyond short time periods.' (Paul Rhode and Koleman Strumpf. 2005. 'Manipulating Political Stock Markets: A Field Experiment and a Century of Observational Data.') Moreover, the markets examined were much smaller and thus even more prone to manipulation than a fully regulated, liquid market like a DCM. As a result, manipulation on Kalshi's market is even less plausible. Indeed, as George Mason University professor Robin Hanson and University of California at Santa Barbara professor Ryan Oprea found, one major reason why political contracts are resistant to manipulation attempts is that any attempt to manipulate prices induces informed counter-parties to enter on the other side of the market. (Robin Hanson and Ryan Oprea. 2008. 'A Manipulator Can Aid Prediction Market Accuracy.' Economica .) In fact, the greater the attempts to jack up one side's prices, the greater the returns to becoming an informed trader. As University of Michigan economist Justin Wolfers and Dartmouth economist Eric Zitzewitz wrote regarding previous political contracts, 'none of these attempts at manipulation had a discernible effect on prices, except during a short transition phase.' (Justin Wolfers and Eric Zitzewitz. 2006. 'Prediction Markets in Theory and Practice'.) This finding was also supported by over two dozen economists in their 2012 Nadex letter and by many letters supporting Kalshi's submission. (Nadex public comment by Zitzewitz et al. Available at https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/stellent/groups/public/@rulesandproducts/documents/ifdocs/ericzitzewitzltr0 20312.pdf.) (For example, the public comment by David Rothschild and company. Available at: https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69735&amp;SearchText=.)

Importantly, the fact that these contracts are already traded on Commission-sanctioned unregistered trading venues in the United States by Americans should demonstrate that they do not cause manipulation and that the markets are safe. In 2014, PredictIt, a new unregistered trading venue dedicated to election and political event contracts, received a no-action letter. Since then, it has hosted more than $1B in contracts traded and has more than a quarter of a million registered users. (LinkedIn profile of former PredictIt employee: 'Oversaw company growth of nearly 400% - from roughly 50,000 registered users to more than 250,000 registered users, and over 1.2 billion shares traded on PredictIt's market exchange.' https://www.linkedin.com/in/will-jennings-pi/)

This information -that hundreds of millions of dollars can be traded on political control contracts without triggering manipulation - was not available to the Commission the last time it considered similar event contracts in 2012. Although another political contract trading venue, the Iowa Electronics Market, received a no action letter in 1992, IEM is smaller and harder to access by individuals not associated with the University of Iowa. Now, far more money is known to have been traded on election outcomes.

## 2: It would improve election integrity and the perception of election integrity.

It would also improve election integrity, and the perception thereof, by providing a useful tool for voters, the media, and the public that would fight disinformation and improve election integrity.

## Shifting trading to a regulate house

Americans can also readily access offshore platforms using a virtual private network such as Betfair. (Comment letter by policy commentator Matt Bruenig. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69670.) Betfair had more than $500 million traded on the 2020 election. (See end of document.) These platforms are not registered with the Commission as DCMs, but frequently host such markets. There are no indications that the markets caused or induced an attempt to manipulate elections, let alone a successful manipulation. However, if the Commission is concerned that election markets could nevertheless create election integrity threats, it is imperative to shift trading to an exchange compliant with the Core Principles, with insider trading protections, surveillance, and KYC. In this way, among others, approving the contracts would improve, not harm, election integrity and the perception of it.

As part of the Exchange's KYC verification and monitoring system, the Exchange also cross-checks applicants against comprehensive databases. In particular, the Exchange will check whether any Members trading on these contracts are on databases of Politically Engaged Persons. The Exchange further cross checks applicants against databases of family members and close associates of Politically Engaged Persons. These checks help to further reduce the potential for trading violations and further increase the integrity of this Contract.

## Disrupting Disinformation

The preponderance of the academic literature suggests that existing media information has grossly misaligned incentives when it comes to reporting on a candidate's chances. These misinformed incentives tend to come from three sources: first, pundits may want to hype up a preferred candidate's chances in order to flatter the sensibilities of their audience. Second, pundits may want to directly contradict a so-called 'mainstream' line about a candidate winning in order to gin up controversy and draw more clicks or viewership. As a result, they may claim an underdog is actually the true favorite and, to further court controversy and viewership, claim that evidence to the contrary is a function of fraud and deception. Third, even when pundits attempt to be honest, viewers themselves may seek out information that confirms their own biases, thus rewarding a subset of relatively dishonest commentators with greater advertising revenue from the increased viewership or readership. In fact, we have empirical evidence of the dismal performance of media figures in the science of prediction. University of Pennsylvania professor Philip Tetlock decided to evaluate the statements made by pundits to see if they bore a relationship to reality--they did not. 15 percent of statements claimed to be 'impossible' did indeed occur and 27 percent of statements claimed to be a 'sure thing' did not. (Philip Tetlock. 'Expert Political Judgment'. 2005.)

How can transparent, regulated election prediction markets help to ameliorate this situation? By providing an instant check against the ability of pundits to assert specific outcomes are 'likely' when in reality they are long-shots. For the numerically-inclined or the financially-minded, a viewer can see that one commentator is asserting that candidate X is a 'sure thing' but the prediction markets give them only (e.g.) a 20% chance of winning, they now know to view that commentator with suspicion. Unless that individual gives compelling reasons why thousands of highly informed individuals with money at stake are all systematically wrong, a viewer can understand that the content they are receiving is ideologically motivated and adjust accordingly.

Markets tend to be more accurate than any pundit or forecasting alternatives. The efficient, price-discovering nature of markets in a wide range of contexts is an extremely well-substantiated finding in academic research. The collective wisdom of many people who have a direct monetary stake in the outcome results in an incredibly valuable price signal. Weather derivatives and agricultural futures are better at predicting the weather than meteorologists. Markets trading on the reproducibility of scientific research are much better at discovering which papers will reproduce than experts, who do no better than chance. Most importantly, research studying IEM and PredictIt have confirmed that election markets provide more accurate information than traditional methods.

By creating a visible, well-trusted benchmark against which to evaluate a pundit's predictive power, Tetlock writes, 'prudent consumers should become suspicious' when they confront a public record of poor performance relative to the market. In Tetlock's words, 'Unadjusted ex ante forecasting performance tells consumers in the media, business, and government what most want to know: how good are these guys in telling us what will happen next?' (Ibid)

Considering how destructive the scourges of misinformation and fake news have become to our Republic--and how critical a role the media has played in amplifying that misinformation--the need for prediction markets as a potential check only grows. Indeed, we would contend that the benefit of election prediction markets on reducing misinformation is large.

## Decreasing Partisanship

Studies consistently show that polarization and partisanship has increased dramatically in the last few decades: every year, greater numbers of people say they believe people from the opposite party are 'immoral' and express other hostile sentiments. More concerning than mere hostility is how partisan antipathy can create alternative sets of facts--voters from different parties simply believe two sets of facts about the world. It is from this miasma where conspiracy theories about stolen elections emerge that damage the electoral process.

Prediction markets can help remedy this problem. Economists John Bullock, Alan Gerber, Seth Hill, Gregory Huber conducted an experiment in 2013 and found that partisan gap in beliefs (e.g. if Republicans believe a statement is true with probability 80%, and Democrats believe it with probability 35%, then the partisan gap is 45 percentage points) shrunk by a shocking 55 percent when participants were given a financial incentive for being right. (John Bullock, Alan Gerber, Seth Hill, Gregory Huber. 2013. 'Partisan Bias in Factual Beliefs about Politics.') If they were given a lesser financial prize for answering 'unsure' (versus none for being wrong and a greater amount for getting it correct), the gap shrunk by about 80 percent.

The reasoning roughly tracks as follows: when no money is at stake, people conflate their beliefs as preferences. For example, a highly partisan liberal may say that a Democratic Party candidate is definitely going to win the 2024 presidential elections this year (a belief), when in reality they merely want the Democrat to win the championship (a preference). However, that same individual when challenged to trade money on that 'definite' prediction will re-evaluate and calculate the odds and decide whether or not they should take that trade. In short, when no money is at stake, people express beliefs as mere signaling, lending itself to heavy partisan bias. When money is at stake, they are able to differentiate their beliefs from their preferences. In other words, the partisan reality gap shrinks, and individuals who trade on election markets become more attune to facts and less to partisan groupthink.

## Empowering Researchers and Policymakers

One of the most exciting applications of election event contracts is their ability to provide powerful new causal inference tools to researchers and policymakers. Right now, estimating the effect of elections is rather difficult--one cannot merely compare economic outcomes during one presidential administration versus another because the underlying conditions have dramatically changed. Likewise, comparing forward-looking financial indicators before and after Election Day runs into several problems, including that many markets are closed overnight and that the market has already priced in some probability of the eventual victor winning.

Enter political control contracts. If Party X has a 80 percent chance of winning and then when they actually win on election night, a stock goes up 1%, we can say that the total effect of the election was 5 percentage point (if going from 80 to 100 is 1%, then going from 0 to 100 is roughly 5%). But it can get even stronger: since researchers would now have a time series of how the probabilities change over time, they can use other events like debates, prominent speeches and the revelation of major scandals to regress forward-looking financial variables on election outcomes in a way impossible without prediction markets.

These tools are far from hypotheticals. Economists Justin Wolfers and Eric Zitzewitz have already conducted several studies that used previous prediction markets (like the Iowa Electronic Exchange) to discern the effects of political outcomes on economic variables. (Erik Snowberg, Justin Wolfers and Eric Zitzewitz. 'Partisan Impact on the Economy'. Journal of Economic Perspectives. 2004.) (Erik Snowberg, Justin Wolfers and Eric Zitzewitz. 'Party Influence in Congress and the Economy.' 2006.) However, the lack of liquidity on their underlying markets makes their studies relatively under-powered. Having a transparent, regulated exchange with greater liquidity could dramatically expand the universe of questions researchers could answer with this data.

Beyond researchers, a transparent, regulated exchange would create a large incentive for traders to develop sophisticated and accurate models about election outcomes in order to gain an edge. The 2016 and 2020 elections were famous for the failure of (most) published models, often attributed to systematic non-response bias in polls. A liquid prediction market would create an incentive for trading firms to develop solutions to these hard issues in order to make more money. Fortunately, there are substantial positive externalities to these investments: learning how better to model, poll and understand the population would help policymakers better understand their constituents so they can figure out what they actually want. Voting is a noisy signal of preferences--the financial incentive to create models to discern voter intentions could thus make our democracy even more responsive.

The demand for accurate information surrounding elections is enormous, and valuable. This is why so many Americans turn to election models and updates offered by FiveThirtyEight , The New York Times , and The Economist come election time for advanced models that incorporate information. On election night 2020, PredictIt's website crashed because of so much incoming traffic. Its markets being consistently referenced as informative and useful by major, credible news organizations like CNN , CNBC , Politico , Bloomberg , The Economist , The Wall Street Journal , The Washington Post , and The New York Times , across sections like The Upshot , DealBook , opinion columns, and the technology section. In addition, it has repeatedly been cited by prominent political officials and thinkers. Examples include economists like Jason Furman, previously President Obama's Council of Economic Advisors Chair (who submitted a comment letter detailing election markets use while he was in the Administration); Nobel Laureate Paul Krugman, a Professor at The Graduate Center and a columnist for The New York Times ; and data scientists/reporters like Nate Silver, founder and editor-in-chief of FiveThirtyEight. (For the sake of brevity, a full list of citations in this section can be found at the end of this document.) (Public comment letter 69708. Available at: https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69708.)

16. Could the contracts be used to influence perception of a political party or its candidates' likelihood of success? To this end, could the contracts be used to manipulate fundraising or voting?

No. This concern has been tested several times by researchers on far smaller markets (which would be more susceptible to manipulation than a large, liquid market hosted by a regulated DCM) who have concluded that all attempts at manipulation have failed. The Commission should be evidence-based in its decision, though this also makes sense in theory.

Koleman and Strumpf examined American political prediction markets and found that no previous effort at manipulation was capable of sustaining anything more than fleeting price movements. They wrote, 'we find little evidence that political stock markets can be systematically manipulated beyond short time periods.' (Paul Rhode and Koleman Strumpf. 2005. 'Manipulating Political Stock Markets: A Field Experiment and a Century of Observational Data.') Moreover, the markets examined were much smaller and thus even more prone to manipulation than a fully regulated, liquid market like one offered by a Designated Contract Market. As a result, manipulation on Kalshi's market is even less plausible. Indeed, as George Mason University professor Robin Hanson and University of California at Santa Barbara professor Ryan Oprea found, one major reason why political contracts are resistant to manipulation attempts is that any attempt to manipulate prices induces informed counter-parties to enter on the other side of the market. (Robin Hanson and Ryan Oprea. 2008. 'A Manipulator Can Aid Prediction Market Accuracy.' Economica .) In fact, the greater the attempts to push up one side's prices, the greater the returns to becoming an informed trader. As University of Michigan economist Justin Wolfers and Dartmouth economist Eric Zitzewitz wrote regarding previous political contracts, 'none of these attempts at manipulation had a discernible effect on prices, except during a short transition phase.' (Justin Wolfers and Eric Zitzewitz. 2006. 'Prediction Markets in Theory and Practice'.) This finding was also supported by over two dozen economists in their 2012 Nadex letter and by many letters supporting Kalshi's submission. (Nadex public comment by Zitzewitz et al. Available at https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/stellent/groups/public/@rulesandproducts/documents/ifdocs/ericzitzewitzltr020312.pdf.) (For example, the public comment by David Rothschild and company. Available at: https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69735.)

This information-that billions of dollars have been traded on contemporary political control contracts without triggering manipulation-was not available to the Commission the last time it considered similar event contracts in 2012. Although another political contract trading venue, the Iowa Electronics Market, received a no-action letter in 1992, IEM is smaller and harder to access by individuals not associated with the University of Iowa. Now, far more money is known to have been traded on election outcomes without any adverse consequences.

Almost all claims that this is a possible threat are unsubstantiated, though the letter provided by Dennis Kelleher of Better Markets does try to provide some evidence. Specifically, it argued:

The proposed event contract is readily susceptible to manipulation… In her 2009 Harvard Law Review article 'Prediction Markets and Law: A Skeptical Account,' Professor Rebecca Haw Allensworth detailed how bad actors might manipulate prediction markets: 'Prediction markets are vulnerable to manipulation…First, they could profit by artificially lowering the trading price temporarily and purchasing shares to be sold at a higher price when the market returns to 'normal'. Second, they could try to affect the informational value of the market. For example, a candidate's supporter could purchase his shares at an inflated value, raising the perceived odds that he would win the election, and (hopefully) getting more voters to jump on the putative bandwagon'. (Public Comment by Dennis Kelleher. Available at: https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=70788)

There are several issues with this line of reasoning:

1. Critically, this is a misapplication of the cited research.
- a. Allensworth only cites one incident of successful manipulation, on an online exchange called TradeSports, referencing the case study on the incident conducted by Paul W. Rhode &amp; Koleman S. Strumpf's, 'Manipulating Political Stock Markets: A Field Experiment and a Century of Observational Data.' However, Rhode and Strumpf conclude the opposite of Allensworth/Better Markets: that even the attempt to manipulate TradeSports' small, unregulated market only succeeded in changing prices briefly, and conclude, 'In the cases studied here, the speculative attack initially moved prices, but these changes were quickly undone and prices returned close to their previous levels. We find little evidence that political stock markets can be systematically manipulated beyond short time periods.'
- b. The other study cited, by Deck et al., does find researchers successfully manipulate a small exchange of their own creation, with made up assets, with a mere eight traders . This clearly cannot be grounds to judge Kalshi's proposed contracts.
2. The vast majority of research on this issue demonstrates how shockingly resilient such markets are to manipulation even in spite of no regulation. This is discussed at length also in Appendix G, which details how the Contract is in compliance with Core Principle 3.
- a. Like Allenworth, Deck et al. acknowledge this. (Deck, C., Lin, S., &amp; Porter, D. (2010). Affecting policy by manipulating prediction markets: Experimental evidence. ESI Working Paper 10-17.) They wrote, 'Wolfers and Zitsewitz (2004, p. 119) assert that 'The profit motive has usually proven sufficient to ensure that attempts at manipulating these [prediction] markets were unsuccessful.' Failed attempts at manipulating markets include political candidates betting on themselves (Wolfers and Leigh 2002) and bettors placing large wagers at horse races (Camerer 1998). Hansen, et al. (2004) did successfully manipulate election prediction markets, but the effects were short lived. In fact, Rhode and Strumph (2009, p. 37) provide an extensive discussion of attempts to manipulate political markets and conclude that 'In almost every speculative attack, prices experienced measurable initial changes. However, these movements were quickly reversed and prices returned close to their previous levels.'' They go on to cite more experiments that showed resilience to manipulation, including that of Ryan Oprea and Robin Hanson, two supportive commenters. (Hanson, R. and Oprea, R. 'A Manipulator Can Aid Prediction Market Accuracy,' Economica, 2009, 76, 304-314.) They do not find any research that shows any successful manipulation that is not short-lived.
3. The research cited by Better Markets only focused on small-scale, generally illiquid, unregulated online prediction markets. A highly regulated market that can onboard institutional clients is even less likely to be a victim of a particular manipulator, as markets incentivize speculators to reverse any potential price impact a manipulator could have. Indeed, Hanson and Oprea found, one major reason why political contracts are resistant to manipulation attempts is that any attempt to manipulate prices induces informed counter-parties to enter on the other side of the market. In fact, the greater the attempts to jack up one side's prices, the greater the returns to becoming an informed trader. As University of Michigan economist Justin Wolfers and Dartmouth economist Eric Zitzewitz wrote regarding previous political contracts, 'none of these attempts at manipulation had a discernible effect on prices, except during a short transition phase.' This finding was also noted by over two dozen economists in their 2012 Nadex letter and by many letters supporting Kalshi's submission.

17. Could the contracts facilitate violations of, or otherwise undermine, federal campaign finance laws or regulations? For example, could the contracts make it easier to sidestep prohibitions governing coordination between candidate campaign committees and political action committees?

No. The concerns this question raises are completely unrelated to the contract's function or impact. It would not improve (or impact at all) the ability of PACs and campaigns to coordinate.

If the implication is that they could do so more easily by providing an accurate picture of the state of the race, then public polling would also help such parties sidestep federal law, a plainly untenable proposition.

As described earlier, it is not plausible for any actor to try and create 'momentum' for their party by buying up one side's shares. One may also imagine that a coordinated group of individuals may conspire to manipulate market prices to give the false impression of candidate 'momentum', thus potentially harming the democratic process. This concern has been tested several times by researchers, with all attempts failing. Koleman and Strumpf in a later paper examined previous American political prediction markets and found that no previous effort at manipulation were capable of sustaining anything more than fleeting price movements. They wrote, 'we find little evidence that political stock markets can be systematically manipulated beyond short time periods.' (Paul Rhode and Koleman Strumpf. 2005. 'Manipulating Political Stock Markets: A Field Experiment and a Century of Observational Data.') Moreover, the markets examined were much smaller and thus even more prone to manipulation than a fully regulated, liquid market like a DCM. As a result, the probability of manipulation is implausible. Indeed, as George Mason University professor Robin Hanson and University of California at Santa Barbara professor Ryan Oprea found in one paper, one major reason why political contracts are rather invulnerable to manipulation attempts is that any attempt to manipulate prices induces informed counter-parties to enter on the other side of the market. (Robin Hanson and Ryan Oprea. 2008. 'A Manipulator Can Aid Prediction Market Accuracy.' Economica .) In fact, the greater the attempts to increase one side's prices, the greater the returns to an informed trader. As University of Michigan economist Justin Wolfers and Dartmouth economist Eric Zitzewitz write regarding previous political contracts, 'none of these attempts at manipulation had a discernible effect on prices, except during a short transition phase.' (Justin Wolfers and Eric Zitzewitz. 2006. 'Prediction Markets in Theory and Practice'.) This finding was also supported by the 2012 Nadex letter by over two dozen economists in the field and many of the ones supporting Kalshi's submission. (Nadex public comment by Zitzewitz et al. Available at https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/stellent/groups/public/@rulesandproducts/documents/ifdocs/ericzitzewitzltr0 20312.pdf.) (For example, the public comment by David Rothschild and others. Available at: https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69735&amp;SearchText=.)

18. Do the contracts present any special considerations with respect to susceptibility to manipulation or surveillance requirements?

As discussed at length in other parts of this letter, Kalshi's contract is not readily susceptible to manipulation, and is outright less susceptible than other commodity futures contracts. Kalshi engages in extensive market surveillance and employs Know-Your-Customer authorization to prevent manipulation in compliance with the Core Principles. Accordingly, we believe the contemplated measures combined with Kalshi's robust market surveillance program and dedicated technology are appropriately calibrated to address the particular risks associated with these particular contracts. Kalshi's rules also prohibit trading on non-public material information.

As with other contracts that deal with publicly important information, such as on the monetary policy decisions of the Federal Reserve, the integrity of the decision-making process by the Federal Open Market Committee has not been eroded despite contracts that trade enormous volumes on their impact. This is no different.

For these contracts, Kalshi employs Know-Your-Customer authorization and would prevent trading by Politically Exposed Persons, including campaigns and PACs, as well as operator's close associates and family. It also has identified a long list of political actors who are specifically prohibited from trading.

Regarding informational advantages of market participants and private polling, a privately commissioned poll is not materially non-public information; any market actor can employ similar research strategies in many other markets. Every market has a discrepancy between its trading members' resources. For example, hedge funds have access to Bloomberg terminals that retail investors can't afford. Market participants have a financial incentive to gain access to better information; entire teams of meteorologists are hired to accurately predict agricultural futures prices. As then Commissioner Quintenz explained, 'The goal of financial markets is not to protect or shelter the less informed. Rather, the market incentivizes being informed and executing on that knowledge. In other words, market efficiencies are earned - they are created through research, investment, and intellectual property.' (See Statement of Commissioner Brian D. Quintenz on the Certification of ICE Futures U.S., Inc. Submission No. 19-119, May 15, 2019. Available at: https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/SpeechesTestimony/quintenzstatement051519) This is a benefit of listing a market, not a harm; it results in more accurate pricing for the market, the benefits of which are discussed in detail in the questions regarding public interest.

Further, there are robust protections against manipulation. The Exchange has rules that prohibit manipulative trading, and the Exchange performs surveillance to detect manipulation. This serves as a deterrent to attempts to manipulate the market via manipulative trading. In addition, the Exchange's rules also prohibit trading on non-public information, and the Exchange performs surveillance to detect violations of this rule. The Exchange is also adopting contract specific gating rules that further buttress this rule. Specifically:

- a. Before being allowed to participate, market participants must certify that they are not implicated by the prohibition list in Appendix B
- b. Before being allowed to participate, market participants must certify that they do not have access to material nonpublic information
- c. The Exchange's surveillance staff will conduct manual background checks and interviews with the top traders in a market, as well as randomly selected participants, to monitor and enforce the gating rules

The Exchange will be surveilling its market for any sign of trading that is indicative of manipulative or fraudulent behavior. The Commission will have all of the necessary data to do the same, should it so wish.

As discussed at length earlier in this response and in Kalshi's original filing, American elections are not readily susceptible to manipulation. In fact, manipulation of which party controls the U.S. Congress has never occurred. This is in contrast to existing markets that the CFTC regulates. Indeed, the CFTC has brought numerous enforcement actions against market participants who either manipulated or attempted to manipulate markets in oil, precious metals, cattle, and other commodity spot and futures markets. The Commission regularly brings almost a hundred enforcement actions per year and orders billions in monetary relief. Then, of course, there are digital asset markets, where the Commission has brought dozens of actions in an incredibly short time. Contrast that with elections, where election or voter fraud is extremely rare, and never succeeds at flipping the outcome of which party controls Congress. Even in cases where election manipulation has been attempted, it has only succeeded in affecting extremely small, local elections. (https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/truth-about-voter-fraud)

Any attempt to manipulate the contract would most certainly involve a high degree of speculation; the contract is in regard to the sum of hundreds of elections. It is not even possible to determine which elections will be the closest (and thus easiest to affect) in advance, even if some races are understood to be more close than others. As detailed in Appendix G, a large-scale conspiracy to coerce many individuals to vote a particular way across many different jurisdictions without being detected. A fraud of sufficient size would mean that this fraud is no Ocean's 8 , or even Ocean's 11 . You'd be looking at

Ocean's-well-into-the-hundreds-if-not-hundreds-of-thousands. Manipulation of polling machines themselves is equally quixotic. (https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2022/11/01/truth-about-election-fraud-its-rare/) Taken all in all, it is very unlikely that a fraud pertaining to this contract will be attempted, and considerably less likely than in other areas that fall under the Commission's enforcement authority.

Critically, there are already enormous stakes in U.S. elections, creating incentives for outcome manipulation; this contract will not change that fact. As discussed in extensive detail in Appendix C, in the public comments, and to anyone involved in industry, elections move prices and it is specious to presume that they do not. Wall Street firms and global finance all trade elections. The contract before the Commission is not novel in that regard; rather, it is a more efficient instrument than what firms currently use to take positions on elections.

19. What is the price forming information for these contracts while the contracts are trading? If the price forming information includes polling and other election prediction information, is that information regulated? How does the price forming information compare to informational sources (e.g. government issued crop forecasts, weather forecasts, federal government economic data, market derived supply and demand metrics for commodities, market-based interest rate curves, etc.) that are generally used for pricing commodity derivative products within the Commission's jurisdiction?

There is a plethora of information used by the public and market participants to help calculate the probability that a given party will take control of Congress. Some of these are regulated (e.g. federal government economic data) but some are not (e.g. polls). That being said, there is no requirement that such information be regulated, nor is it clear that regulated information is the primary source of pricing information for many commodity futures contracts compared to private market forecasts and data. As discussed at other points in this response, demand for accurate information on election probabilities is in incredibly high demand by the public, and as a result, there is a large, competitive market for such content.

With regard to whether polling would become regulated, the answer is not any more or any less than any of the other information that goes into pricing any commodity.

20. Should, and if so how would, the registered entity listing the contracts take steps to address possible manipulative and/or false reporting activity involving the price forming information for the contracts, while the contracts are trading?

The Exchange has already taken great steps to prevent and address manipulative behavior. As in some of the prior questions, it seems odd for the Commission to request only the public's input in this regard, but has not discussed this with Kalshi. Regardless, the Exchange has numerous safeguards in place to prevent manipulation.

Additionally, the Exchange notes that in particular, concerns regarding manipulating this contract are broadly unlikely. The market for credible information on elections and their probabilities is very competitive, and false information is equally as likely to impact Kalshi's market as reports regarding the production of oil do for oil futures. Should false information be reported, the

returns from being an informed trader who could sniff out so much information would grow commensurately.

That being said, the Exchange nonetheless is extremely focused on making sure that such concerns would not affect the market. For example, it has gated out polling organizations, and employees thereof, from trading. Kalshi engages in extensive market surveillance and employs Know-Your-Customer authorization to prevent manipulation in compliance with the Core Principles. The contemplated measures combined with Kalshi's robust market surveillance program and dedicated technology are appropriately calibrated to address the particular risks associated with these particular contracts. Kalshi's rules also prohibit trading on non-public material information.

As with other contracts that deal with publicly important information, such as on the monetary policy decisions of the Federal Reserve, the integrity of the decision-making process by the Federal Open Market Committee has not been eroded despite contracts that trade enormous volumes on their impact. This is no different.

It is also important to note what the correct legal standard is, which is not 'free from attempted manipulation.' Indeed, one need only to peruse the annals of the CFTC's enforcement actions to find many contracts that were manipulated (e.g. LIBOR) or the subject of an attempted manipulation. These event contracts, such as oil contracts, interest rate swaps, etc. are significantly more likely and susceptible to be manipulated than this contract. Indeed, the fact that a contract like this on a regulated market is so unlikely to be manipulated successfully is one of the reasons that the public is so keen on seeing the data from the market which will be far more reliable than many other data sources currently available.

21. Do Kalshi's limitations on market participation affect the susceptibility of the contracts and/or markets for the contracts to manipulation? Do the limitations affect the extent to which these markets could be used to influence perception of a political party or candidate or otherwise be implicated in attempted election manipulation? Are the limitations reasonably enforceable?

In practice, few to no parties have access to material insider information on the contract's outcome. Any potential information an actor could have is highly unlikely to be material regarding the outcome of-in total-several hundred Congressional races. It is important to keep in mind that the argument that Congressional Control can come down to the outcome of a handful of races, and some races can be decided by a margin of several thousand, hundred, or even individual votes, has little to no bearing on the contract's susceptibility to manipulation. The margin of victory before an election is unknown. If a nefarious actor attempted to manipulate the election in order to manipulate the contract, which is what the CFTC is asking in this question,

the actor would not know beforehand what the margin of victory would be. That nefarious actor would have to assess the size of the electorate, which is in every instance going to be large. Accordingly, it is hard to conceive of the definitive piece of material non-public information that will swing the outcome of the contract.

However, like all contracts on Kalshi, there is a prohibition to trade on material nonpublic information. This contract is no different in that regard. In response to various indications from the Commission, however, the Exchange adopted contract-specific rules for this contract to gate out certain people who would be more likely to have information that could be considered material nonpublic information. This gating itself is the proverbial 'safeguard on a safeguard'.

As in other questions, Kalshi notes the incongruity of asking the public for input on how Kalshi will enforce a rule, without having asked Kalshi. Regardless, this rule is enforceable.

22. Should the Commission be responsible for surveilling, and enforcing against, possible manipulative and/or false reporting activity involving the price forming information for the contracts, while the contracts are trading?

It should be responsible for surveilling and enforcing against manipulative and false reporting activity while the contracts were live as much as it is responsible for doing so with other listed contracts, no more, no less.

Further, the Exchange notes that one of the benefits of having this activity on a regulated exchange is that the Commission will, for the first time, gain insight into the amount and level of activity of trading on congressional control. Currently, if, for example, Congress would invite the CFTC to the Hill and ask the CFTC to describe the current financial activity on congressional control, the CFTC will have nothing to say beyond there is activity, some on OTC, some on unregulated markets, some overseas. When pressed for details on who is participating, the CFTC will have to confess its utter ignorance. However, if the contract were to trade on regulated exchanges, the CFTC will not only know precisely what positions are being taken on the regulated markets, they will know who is taking them.

23. Could trading in the markets for the contracts obligate the Commission to investigate or otherwise become involved in the electoral process or political fundraising? If so, is this an appropriate role for the Commission?

There is no reason for the Commission to believe it will be responsible for policing attempts at, or successful, election fraud. No more and no less than the CFTC is responsible for any other type of underlying fraud that has impacts on a contract. Earlier this year, there were two individuals who were arrested for attempting to destroy power stations with the ultimate goal of

destroying the city of Baltimore. (https://abc7chicago.com/power-grid-attack-sarah-clendaniel-brandon-russell-baltimore-plot/12777303/.) If successful, the sabotage would have impacted electricity prices significantly. Is the CFTC 'obligated . . . to investigate or otherwise become involved in the' prosecution of these two individuals? Is the CFTC 'obligated . . . to investigate or otherwise become involved in the' protecting of America's power grid? OPEC+ impacts the prices of global oil, including the futures markets that the CFTC regulates. Is the CFTC therefore 'obligated . . . to investigate or otherwise become involved in the' OPEC+ meetings? Is the CFTC 'obligated . . . to investigate or otherwise become involved in the' determination of corporate dividends that underlie the CME's contract? The answer to all of these is that the CFTC will get involved to the extent that it is necessary for it to administer and enforce the CEA. The CFTC does not, in any of these cases, assume the role of the 'cop on the beat'. This application here is no different.

Election manipulation is a crime. (https://www.fbi.gov/how-we-can-help-you/safety-resources/scams-and-safety/common-scams-and-crimes/election-crimes-and-security#:~:text=Intentionally%20deceiving%20qualified%20voters%20to,%2Fhow%2Dto%2Dvote.) There are law enforcement agencies who police elections, and elections are policed much more effectively than other markets that have CFTC derivative products trading on them. The Commission is not the only 'cop on the beat' with regard to election fraud. Elections, unlike many other reference markets or events that have CFTC-derivatives trading on them, are governed by multiple law enforcement agencies whose very existence is to prevent and detect election manipulation and fraud. This includes the Federal Election Commission, the federal Department of Justice, state election commissions, state Secretaries of State, and state ethics commissions. History has shown that these agencies are very good at their job. The other day, the CFTC brought an enforcement charge against Alexander Mashinsky and Celsius Network, LLC, where the CFTC acknowledged the role that was played by both the SEC and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York. (https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/PressReleases/8749-23) Similarly, Cody Easterday committed fraud that was discovered by Tyson foods and prosecuted by the Department of Justice. The CFTC also charged Easterday, presumably after cooperating with the relevant criminal authorities. These are two examples of many. The CFTC is well-versed in cooperating with the relevant law enforcement agencies, be it the FBI or DOJ or any other relevant federal or state authority. There is no reason to assume that the CFTC would somehow lose that competency in this case.

24. What other factors should the Commission consider in determining whether these contracts are 'contrary to the public interest?'

The Commission has never fully defined the full extent of the factors it considers under the public interest standard in Section 5c(c)(5)(C). Even the Nadex Order admits that the Commission can consider factors other than the economic purpose test. The Commission is not an expert in all areas, such as election law or integrity, voter confidence, or how to foster democracy, and the Commission should instead focus on what it knows: the value of a contract as a hedging interest and the value of a contract's price to market participants. As we noted in response earlier, these contracts are not contrary to the public interest because they have a large economic purpose, would serve as a useful tool for voters, the media, and the public that would fight information and improve election integrity. We note that the evidence supporting the contracts is wholly consistent with the stated findings and purpose of the CEA found in 7 USC 5. The contracts provide 'a means for managing and assuming price risks, discovering prices, or disseminating pricing information through trading in liquid, fair and financially secure trading facilities.' (7 USC 5(a).) These contracts and their trading on Kalshi would 'protect all market participants from fraudulent or other abusive sales practices and misuses of customer assets.' (7 USC 5(b).) Finally, allowing these contracts to trade on a CFTC-regulated DCM would 'promote responsible innovation and fair competition among boards of trade, other markets and market participants.' (Ibid) In sum, these contracts are consistent with the CEA and its purposes and Kalshi has shown that they should be traded on a CFTC-regulated exchange with all of the protections that the CEA makes available to market participants.

The Commission should hold a contract is contrary to the public interest if it:

- -Has no economic purpose
- -Has no hedging utility;
- -Has no price basing utility - meaning it has no effect on the prices of other commodities, assets, services, or commodity interests, which must therefore include affecting the probabilities of other events on which event contracts are now or in the future trading.
- -And has no forecasting value to the public.

## APPENDIX C (CONFIDENTIAL) - RISK MITIGATION AND PRICE BASING UTILITIES

The following sections will provide an explanation of the hedging utility of this contract.

- -First,    in    section    A,    we    will    establish    how    firms    generally    make    risk    management decisions and how hedging fits into those decisions;
- -Section   B   sets   forth   contract   specific   analysis,   which   will   establish   how   political   control contracts   fit   into   the   risk   management   framework   described   in   section   A.    Section   B   also presents an analogy to climate risk hedging;
- -Section   C   highlights   the   extensive   evidence   that   demonstrates   the   impacts   of   elections   are not   merely    hypothetical,    but    an    actual    phenomenon    that    presents   tangible   financial   risk for firms;
- -Section   D   presents   several   extensive   illustrations   of   how   the   CONTROL   contract   will   be used for hedging;
- -Section E offers analogies to similar products;
- -Section   F   explains   how   the   Contract's   specifications   enhance   its   hedging   utility   for   many market participants;
- -Section G discusses the price basing utility of the contract; and
- -Section   H    addresses    miscellaneous    comments    that    touch    on    the    contract's    hedging    and price basing functions.

## A. General risk management

Businesses    face    a    panoply    of    potential    harms    that    will    affect    and    impact    their    value.    These potential    harms    are    risks.    Risks    include    valuation    risk    (the    value    of    the    business's    services    or asset's    decline),    funding    risk    (access    to    credit    or    other    funding   declines),   and   operational   risks (possible   disruptions    or    errors    in    the    production   process   that   undermine   their   earnings),   among many   others.   Each   one   of   these   general   categories   of   risk   will   manifest   and   impact   each   business according   to   the   business's   unique   activities,   profile,   composition, et   cetera .   In   addition   to   these examples,    there    are    many    more    categories    of    risks,    including    strategic    risks    (e.g.,    getting outcompeted by a competitor), reputation risks, liability risks and beyond.

There   are   three   steps   that   businesses   generally   follow   when   they   are   managing   the   risk   of   harm. The   first   step   is   to   identify   the   risk's   impact,   meaning   the   various   places   where   the   business   can suffer,   such   as   its   income   or   valuation.   The   second   step   is   for   the   business   to   assess   how   likely   it is    that    the    potential    harms    will    materialize,    and    how    severe    or    acute    will    the    impacts    of   these harms   be.   In   order   to   do   that,   the   business   must   consider   the   factors   that   can   affect   the   likelihood and   severity   of   the   risks.   These   include   market   conditions   and   all   related   factors   that   can   have   a bearing on the potential harm.

This three-step process characterizes an appropriate   risk management framework. It works for all manners of risks.

To   illustrate,   a   business   might   identify   that   a   decline   in   profit   margin   is   a   harm   that   it   faces.   One of    the    many    factors    that    could    cause    this    harm    is    changes    in    demand    for    its    product    that    will change   what   it   can   charge.   The   business   won't   stop   there,   though.   It   will   identify   what   trends   or events   will    create    a    change    in    demand    for    its    product.   For   example,   the   business   will   consider what    market    forces    impact    its    core    customer    base.    A    slowdown    in    that    sector    might    have    a corresponding   downward   impact   on   the   demand   for   the   business's   product.   To   illustrate,   consider a   builder   of   extra-large   river   barges   in   the   upper   Midwest.   They   know   that   'changes   in   demand' impact   their   risk,   but   they   need   to   know   what   affects   demand.   Naturally,   they   look   to   key   factors such   as   lower   grain   yield   in   the   upper   Mississippi   River   V alley   (as   lower   grain   yield   may   mean lower   need   for   river   barges).   Both   of   these   are   factors   that   will   impact   the   acuteness   of   the   risk, i.e .,   whether   the   harm   is   likely   to   happen   and   how   severe   it   will   be   if   it   does   happen.   As   a   result, they may purchase short contracts on grain futures in order to hedge their risk.

Similarly,    many    businesses    face    potential    harms    that    are    impacted    by    inflation.    Inflation    can impact   nearly   all   term   contracts,   impacting   the   business's   real   costs.   For   instance,   a   firm   locked into    a    10-year    commercial    lease    on    their    office    space    will    see    lower    real    costs    as    a    result    of inflation   than   with   a   shorter   lease.   However,   if   the   company   is   also   a   supplier   and   has   locked   in their   sales   contracts   (e.g.,   they   have   agreed   to   sell   100,000   tons   of   fertilizer   at   $900/ton),   then   the real   value   of   those   sales   decline   and   inflation   will   harm   them.   Of   course,   inflation   affects   many other   risks   as   well.   Higher   inflation   raises   the   probability   that   the   Federal   Reserve   raises   its   target interest    rates,    which    tends    to    substantially    reduce    stock    valuations    and    the    value    of    assets. (The   price   of   a   stock   is   often   considered   the   'discounted   present   value   of   future   dividends'.   When   the   interest   rate (a.k.a.    the    discount    rate)    goes    up,    then    the    present    value    of    future    dividends    declines    and    thus    the    stock    value declines.   In   simpler   terms,   when   the   interest   rate   goes   up,   it   raises   the   relative   value   of   present   money   over   future profit.   So   an   asset   that   incurs   costs   in   the   short-run   but   profits   in   the   long-run   is   less   valuable   when   interest   rates   are higher.   A   stock-which   costs   money   in   the   short   run   but   may   generate   dividends   in   the   long-run-is   thus   less   valuable when   interest    rates    rise.    That's    doubly    true    for    'growth    stocks'    that    may    be    generating    no    profits   now,   but   may generate them 5-10 years from now.) Inflation    is    just    one    of    many    examples    of    factors    that    impact    the    likelihood    and    severity    of potential    harms.    To    mitigate    those    risks,    they    may    seek    to    purchase   any   one   of   many   inflation hedges, such as inflation swaps, inflation-protected Treasuries, or inflation event contracts.

## B. Application to political control contracts

Political   control   represents   another   factor   that   could   impact   a   company's   risk   profile,   much   like inflation.    Firms    use    the    same    risk    management    strategy    as    before.    A    company    first    identifies harms-operational,   reputational,   valuation,    credit,    and    more-and    then   identifies   the   ways   those risks    could    change.    The    aforementioned    fertilizer    company    may   be   purchasing   fertilizer   inputs like    potash    from    other    countries    (potash    is    often    found    in    Russia,    Belarus,    and    China)    and identify   their   largest   operational   risk   as   disruption   in   the   global   potash   supply   chain.   They   further identify    that    changes    in    congressional    political    control    could    increase    the    probability    that    the supply    chain    is    disrupted    since    different    Congresses    may    take    different    approaches    to    tariffs, sanctions   and   other   trade-related   policies.   The   election   of   a   new   Congress   skeptical   about   status quo   policy   will   immediately   impact   their   business   by   reducing   the   expected   revenues   of   current investments,   new   investments,   and   making   partners   and   investors   skittish.   As   a   result,   changes   in political control directly increases (or decreases) the firm's operational risks.

Perhaps    the    clearest    example    of    this    description    of    risk    management    comes    from    the    CFTC's report    'Managing    Climate    Risk    in    the    U.S.    Financial    System'    ('CFTC    Climate    Report'). 2 In Figure   2.1    (shown    below)    and    expounded    upon    at    length    in   Chapter   (Commodity Futures Trading Commission. 2020. 'Managing Climate Risk in the U.S. Financial System'. https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/2020-09/9-9-20%20Report%20of%20the%20Subcommittee%20on%20Clim ate-Related%20Market%20Risk%20-%20Managing%20Climate%20Risk%20in%20the%20U.S.%20Financial%20 System%20for%20posting.pdf)   of   the   report,   the   report discusses    transition    risk,    which    is    defined    as    the    'risk    associated    with    the    uncertain    financial impacts    that    could    result    from    a    transition    to    a    net-zero    emissions    economy'.    They    note    that transition   risk   implicates   'market,   credit,   policy,   legal,   technological,   and   reputational   risks'   for firms   and   must   be   a   part   of   any   honest   risk   assessment.   Most   importantly,   the   report   specifically identifies    how    transition    risks    'could    arise,    for    example,    from    changes    in    policy'    along    with other   factors   such   as   'technological   breakthroughs,   and   shifts   in   consumer   preferences   and   social norms'.

As the Financial Stability Oversight Council corroborates, policy changes (along with technological    change    and    consumer    preference    changes)    'especially    if    delayed    or    uneven    in application   and   therefore   requiring   more   abrupt   economic   shifts-may   lead   to   sharp   changes   in the    values    of certain    assets    or    liabilities,    impacting    nonfinancial    activity    and    the    financial sector.' (Financial Stability Oversight Council. 2021. 'Report on Climate-Related Financial Risk' https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/261/FSOC-Climate-Report.pdf) As   a   draft   rule   from   the   Federal   Reserve   Board   states,   'Financial   institutions   with   sound risk    management   practices    employ    a    comprehensive    process    to    identify   emerging   and   material risks    related    to    the    financial    institution's    business    activities.    The    risk    identification    process should    include    input    from    stakeholders    across    the    organization    with    relevant    expertise    ( e.g., business    units,    independent    risk    management,    internal    audit,    and    legal).    Risk    identification includes   assessment   of    climate-related    financial    risks    across    a   range   of   plausible   scenarios   and under   various   time   horizons.' (Management for Large Financial Institutions.'. https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2022/12/08/2022-26648/principles-for-climate-related-financial-risk-ma nagement-for-large-financial-institutions) As   both   reports   show,   firms must consider   all   of   the   risks   facing their   businesses,   and   the   only   honest   and   accurate   way   to   do   so   is   to   consider   the   way   changes   in policy affect those risks. This analogy is drawn out further in Appendix L.

Commodity Futures Trading Commission. 2020. 'Managing Climate Risk in the U.S. Financial System'. Page 12

## C. Evidence of election risk and hedging need

Elections    clearly    impact    myriad    cash    flows    and    assets.    Political    parties    vie    for    office    with credible   commitments   to   affect   public   policy.   As   a   consequence,   elections   portend   risk   for   many firms   with    politically    exposed    cash    flows    and    assets.    The    financial    press    frequently   reports   on how    elections    (and    even    changes    in    election    polling)    affect    the    prices    of    financial    assets    well before    a    new    Congress    has    even    been    seated. (There are scores of articles which could serve as examples, but some are: Noel Randewich. 2020. 'S&amp;P 500 futures rise as U.S. election suggests less regulatory risk.' Reuters ; Myra P. Saefong. 2020. 'Here's how   the U.S. presidential election could shake up the oil market.' Marketwatch ; Matthew Weaver. 2020. 'Congressional   elections could impact commodity prices most, expert says.' Capital Press .) Election    hedging    specifically    is    also    often referenced    in    the    financial    press. (There are scores of articles which could serve as examples, but some are: Weismann, Jordan. 'Wall Street Says You Should Short Mexico to Prepare for Trump.' 2016. Slate ; Brice, Jessica, and Cota, Isabella. 'How Hedging   and a Certain Someone Upended the Year of the Peso.' 2016. Bloomberg.) Below,    we    present    evidence    from    academic    and    private research,    firm    testimony,    and    the    comment    file    on    Kalshi's    previous    submission    detailing    the existence of election risk and a core use case for Kalshi's Contract .

Academic   research   has    consistently    found    that    changes    in    political   control   result   in   changes   to the    prices    of    traded    assets.    For    example,    researchers    Erik    Snowberg,    Justin    Wolfers,    and    Eric Zitzewitz    used    a    variety    of    prediction    markets    (including    one    permitted    by    the    Commission, Iowa   Electronic   Markets)   to   establish   a   relationship   between   the   odds   of   a   given   party's   success in    Congressional    midterms    and    financial    markets/indicators. (Erik Snowberg, Justin Wolfers and Eric Zitzewitz. 'Party Influence in Congress and the Economy.' 2007.) They    found    that    there    was    a consistent   link   between   changes   in   expectations   of   who   would   control   Congress   and   the   prices   of equities, government    bonds,    and    the    exchange    rates    between    the    U.S.    dollar    and    foreign currencies. The fact that financial markets utilize political control as a pricing factor demonstrates    that    not    only    are    elections    something    that    should    be    hedged,    but    that    firms    are already   hedging    and    repricing    assets    on    public    markets.    If    this    is    the    case,    there    is    no    case    to argue    that    elections    are    not    'sufficiently    predictable'    events    to    hedge;    the    market    is    already doing so.

That    same    team    looked    at    high-frequency    trading    data    immediately    following    the    release    of (what   turned   out   to   be   inaccurate)   exit   poll   data   which   briefly   caused   a   major   change   in   the   odds of    a    Democratic   victory   in    2004.    Such    a    sudden    spike    during    what   is   normally   a   quiet   trading period   allowed   the   researchers   to   isolate   the   effects   of   the   changes   in   political   expectations   from other    economic    events during    the    same    period.    They    concluded    that    markets    expected    a Republican   victory   to   result   in   higher   equity   prices,   interest   rates,   oil   prices,   and   a   stronger   dollar than   a   Democratic   one. (Erik Snowberg, Justin Wolfers and Eric Zitzewitz.   'Partisan Impact on the Economy'. Journal of Economic Perspectives. 2004.) They   reperformed   that   analysis   in   2016,   where   they   found   that   markets anticipated    that    a    Republican    victory    would    reduce    the    value    of    the    S&P    500,    foreign    stock markets,    reduce    oil    prices,    and    lead    to    a    significant    decline    in    the    Mexican    Peso,    while    also increasing    future    market    volatility    compared    to    a    Democratic    win. (Justin Wolfers and Eric Zitzewitz. 2016. 'What do   financial markets think of the 2016 election?') A    similar    study    in    2008 found    that    Democratic    politicians    polling    higher    than    Republican    ones    was    better    for    equity markets. (Demissew Diro Ejara, Raja Nag, and Kamal P. Upadhyaya, 2012. '  Opinion polls and the stock market: evidence from the 2008 US presidential election  .' Applied Financial   Economics .)

Similarly,    Northwestern    professor    Seema    Jayachandran    used    a    natural    experiment    to    study   the effects   of   changes   in   the   partisan   control   of   Congress. (Seema Jayachandran. 2006. 'The Jeffords Effect'. Journal of Law and Economics .) In   2001,   Vermont   Senator   James   Jeffords switched   parties   from   Republican   to   Democrat,   shifting   control   of   the   Senate.   In   what   she   called 'the    Jeffords    effect',    the    equity    valuations    of    firms    that    donated    to    Republicans    decreased    by 0.4%,   while    the    equity   valuations   of   firms   that   donated   to   Democrats   increased   by   0.1%,   again indicating   the   marketplace's   belief   that   Congressional   control   has   real,   predictable   consequences on    firm    valuations.    Brown    University    economist    Brian    Knight    found    that    'under    a    Bush administration,    relative    to    a    counterfactual    Gore    administration,    Bush-favored    firms    are    worth 3%    more    and Gore-favored    firms    are worth    6%    less,    implying    a    statistically    significant differential return of 9%'. (Brian Knight. 2006. 'Are policy platforms capitalized into equity prices? Evidence from the Bush/Gore 2000 Presidential Election' Journal of Public Economics.) Economist    Andrea Mattozi found by regressing Bush-    or Gore-affiliated   portfolios   against   surprising   poll   results,   'an   increase   in   the   probability   of   a   Bush victory   from   50   to   51   percent,   increases   the   annual   expected   excess   return   of   the   Bush   portfolio by    25    percent    and    decrease[s]    the    annual    expected    excess    return    of    the    Gore    portfolio    by    35 percent'. (Andrea Mattozzi. 2005. 'Can we insure against political uncertainty? Evidence from the U.S. stock market'.) This   finding-that   changes   in   the   expectations   of   who   controls   government   affects   the prices of assets-have been replicated time and time again. (Examples abound, but also include, in addition to the research already discussed: Frederico Belo, Vito D. Gala, and Jun Li. 2013. 'Government spending, political cycles, and the cross section of stock returns.' Journal   of Financial Economics ; and Kyle Handley and Nuno Limao.   2015. 'Trade and investment under policy uncertainty: theory and firm. evidence.' American Economic Journal:   Economic Policy ; Bryan Kelly, Lubos Pastor, and Pietro Veronesi. 2016. 'The price of political uncertainty: Theory and evidence from the option market.' The   Journal of Finance.)

Financial   assets   are   derivatives   of   real   economic   cash   flows   and   commodities.   For   example,   the stock   of    a    company    is    representative    of    that    company's    value,    a    function    of    its   costs   and   cash flows.    Thus,    market    participants    are    imputing    elections'    impacts    into    those    assets,    suggesting markets   believe   that   elections   create   economic   risks,   but   those   impacts   are   predictable   enough   to spend money repricing assets and hedging even in advance of policy decisions.

Consequently, banks regularly inform their clients as to how Congressional elections may impact their clients' extant risks. In 2020, investment bank research divisions offered projections about the economic and financial impacts of various political outcomes. For example,

- -Goldman    Sachs's    chief economist    stated publicly    that full Democratic    control    of government    would cause    the bank    to upgrade    their earnings    forecast by    sharply increasing    the    probability    that    a    large    fiscal    stimulus    bill    would    become    law. (Matthew Fox. 2020. 'Goldman's chief economist breaks   down why a Biden-led blue wave would prompt an upgrade in growth forecasts'. Business Insider.) Full Democratic    control    would    also,    according    to    the    bank's    insights,    'likely    include    a stimulus    package    in    Q1,    followed    by    infrastructure    and    climate    legislation.    In    this scenario,   we    would    expect    legislation    expanding    health    and    other    benefits,   financed   by tax increases, to pass.' (Thomas Franck. 2020. 'Goldman Sachs says Democratic sweep would unleash 'substantially' more stimulus.' CNBC.)

- -Morgan   Stanley   also   cited   the   chance   of   stimulus   along   with   infrastructure   spending   and corporate   tax    changes    as    a    vehicle    for    a    'blue    wave'    leading    to   a   weaker   dollar,   lower interest rates, stronger GDP growth and lower bond prices. (Morgan Stanley. 2020. 'A Revised Guide to Economic   Policy Paths & Market Impacts'.)  (Morgan Stanley. 2020. '2020 US Election Preview:   5 Themes to Watch for Investors.')
- -JP Morgan    Chase    projected that a Democratic    victory    would lead    to a rally in 'left-behind'    equities,    such    as    'European    cyclicals,    value,    China-exposed    stocks    and renewables.' (Ksenia Galouchko. 2020. 'JPMorgan Says Biden Victory Could Mark a Stock Market Shift.' Bloomberg.)
- -Bank   of    America    provided    roadmaps    for    each    type    of    partisan    outcome   (e.g.   one   party controls all of government,    divided    government,    et cetera). They    wrote that full Democratic   control   of   government   would   lead   to   $2-2.5   trillion   in   stimulus   compared   to   a Biden    win    with    a    divided    Congress    ($0.5-1    trillion)    or    a    Trump    win    with    a    divided Congress   ($1.5-2   trillion).   They   also   detailed   impacts   to   specific   sectors,   like   businesses exposed to Chinese trade, in each scenario. (Bérengère Sim. 2020. 'Bank of America wrote a massive 92-page report on the election's impact - here's what investors need to know.' Financial News.)
- -UBS    published    a    report    noting    partisan    outcomes    for    policy    and    the    economy,    and recommended    investors    specifically    focus    on    candidates'    policy    commitments    with regards    to    politically-sensitive    industries    like    energy,    health    care,    financials,    and    the environment.    They    noted    that    their    investors    should    consider    how    the    S&P    500    has performed   best    in    environments    where    Republicans    win,    and    their    clients    should    make portfolio appropriate adjustments.
- -Moody    Analytics-not    an    investment    bank,    but    a    credit    rating    agency    with    a    market research    division-explicitly    estimated    that    Democratic    control    of    government    would result   in   4.2%   growth   between   2020-2024,   compared   to   3.1%   under   a   Republican   control scenario. (Moody's Analytics.  2020. 'The Macroeconomic Consequences:   Trump vs. Biden'.) They   similarly   projected   a   one   percentage   point   lower   unemployment   rate   and a 0.6 percentage point higher S&P 500 under a Democratic sweep.

This   research   is   distributed,   at   great   cost,   to   major   financial   institutions,   especially   capital   pools like   hedge   funds   and   pension   funds.   This   behavior   strongly   suggests   that   firms   care   a   great   deal about   the   specific   impacts   of   elections   on   their   assets,   and   take   action   to   hedge   their   positions   in advance.    This    was    corroborated    in    a    comment    letter    provided    by    a    Managing    Director    of JPMorgan Chase. He wrote,

At    JPMorgan,    election    risk    is    one    of    the    largest    risks    our    clients    face,    and    they    frequently    engage    us proactively   on   how   to   minimize   it   (hedge   it,   in   other   words).   We   work   with   and   advise   our   clients   on   how to   avoid   that   risk   in   their   portfolios,   especially   when   a   client's   cash   flows   or   investments   are   very   politically sensitive    (for    example,    those    in    the    coal    industry    are    very    concerned    regarding    election    outcomes    and policy expectations).

Since    clients    have   different   risk   profiles,   we   do   extensive   research   to   fine-tune   how   these   risks   add   up   in our   clients'   positions.   Our   division   employs   a   team   of   economists,   at   service   to   our   partners,   whose   role   in election   years   is   heavily   to   research   election   probabilities   as   well   as   the   impact   election   outcomes   will   have on   equities   and   other   investment   products.   We   frequently   host   discussions   with   experts   and   clients   on   the relevant risks (including one coming up this week!) and publish research for both clients and the public. (Public Comment by Angelo Lisboa. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69666  .)

In    addition,    businesses    themselves    often   note   electoral   outcomes   as   an   important   factor   in   their value.   In   Q3   2020,   more   than   one-third   of   company   quarterly   earnings   conference   calls   used   the term    'election'    in    the    context    of    their    financial    assessments    and    projections. (John Butters. 2020. 'More than one third of S&amp;P 500 companies are discussing the election on Q3 earnings calls.' Factset.) On   these    calls, concerns   were   most   frequently   raised   regarding   regulatory   changes   that   would   impact   business, as    well    as    tax    reform    and    additional    potential    fiscal    stimulus.    Earnings    calls    also    frequently included   discussions    regarding    the    economic    and   business   impacts   of   different   political   control outcomes   (e.g.,   a   'blue   wave',   divided   government,   et   cetera).   Consider   this   fall   2020   testimony from Thomas Peterffy, Chairman of Interactive Brokers, a brokerage firm:

Well,    in    the    last    couple    of    weeks,    we    do    notice    some    moderation    in    activity,    and    --    which    would    be expected   as   we   come   up   to   the   election.   And   then,   of   course,   I   think   it   will   pick   up   when   the   results   come out,    especially    if    the    Senate    goes    Democratic,    I    expect    that    people    will    start    taking    the   long-term   gains because    of   the   expected   43%   long-term   capital   gains   tax   rate.   And   then   of   course,   we   are   looking   further down   the   road,   more   and   more   spending   that   will   result   in   asset   inflation,   including   higher   and   higher   stock prices.

The   marketplace's   expectations   of   the   impacts   of   changes   in   political   control   are   so   credible   that the   Federal   Reserve   uses   them   when   making   monetary   policy   decisions.   For   example,   during   the December   2012   Federal   Open   Market   Committee   meeting,   Simon   Potter,   the   Federal   Reserve's Head of Economic Research said:

The   outcome   of   the   election   reinforced   investors'   expectations   for   a   continuation   of   highly   accommodative monetary   policy...Some   market   participants   also   believe   that   there   is   an   increased   chance   of   housing   policy changes   following   the   election,   which   would   increase   refinance   activity   and   origination   volumes   associated with credit-constrained borrowers. (Meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. December 11-12, 2012.)

Commenters   on   Kalshi's   previous   submission   overwhelmingly   argued   in   favor   of   the   Contract's risk    mitigation    value.    This   included   industry   leaders   (such   as   Jorge   Paulo   Lemann,   Christopher Hehmeyer,   Ron   Conway,   Seth   Weinstein)   and   owners   of   politically   sensitive   businesses   (such   as those    of    Continental    Grain    Company,    Nabis,    Greenwork,    Upsolve)    who    specifically    discussed hedging   use   cases   for   their   companies. (Public comments 69668, 69715, 69667, 69683, 69678, 69619, 69684, 69717, 69714, 69718, 69727, 69707, 69677, 69655.) This   included   Greg   Sirotek,   the   co-founder   and   CEO   of Moneytree Power, a startup dedicated to installing solar power:

Congress    has    an    incredible    influence    over    the    future    of    the   zero-carbon   energy   industry,   particularly   the solar   industry…Given   the   respective   differences   in   the   two   parties'   positions   on   the   importance   of   climate change    mitigation,    renewable    energy    development    and    the    deficit,    the    risk    profiles    depending    on   which party    is    in    power   is    vast.    An    event   contract   which   pays   out   on   the   basis   of   Congressional   control   would allow our business to manage this previously unhedged risk. (Public Comment by Greg Sirotek. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=70751.)

## Jorge   Paulo   Lemann,   a   founder   at   3G   Capital   and   a   Board   member   of   firms   like   AB-InBev   and Kraft Heinz (some of the largest participants in traditional agricultural futures), wrote:

These    statements    [claims    that    there    are    no    hedging    or    price    basing    use    cases    for    election    contracts]   are inconsistent    with    the    preponderance    of    the    academic    research   on   the   subject   and   is   inconsistent   with   the actual   experience   of   anyone   who   has   ever   operated   a   business   in   or   with   the   United   States   or   traded   on   the global   commodity   markets.   Experience   and   empirical   observation   show   that   elections   have   consequences, and   these   consequences   directly   create   risk   that   can   be   hedged,   and   are   factored   into   pricing   commodities, financial assets, and services. (Public Comment by Jorge Paulo Lemann. Available at: https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69684.)

Hehmeyer,   former   Chair   of   the   National   Futures   Association   and   Board   Member   of   the   Futures Industry Association, added that many are affected regardless of policy outcomes:

For   example,   media   personalities   and   companies   face   risk   from   Congressional   control   and   elections.   Early professionals   hoping   to   work   on   Capitol   Hill   know   there   are   far   more   positions   available   if   their   preferred party    is    victorious,    as    there    are    more    Congressional   offices   and   committee   positions   for   them   to   staff.   A consultancy   that   specializes   in   specific   topic   areas   (for   example,   a   green   energy   consultancy)   may   know   the demand    for    their    services    will    decline    in    anticipation    that    their    issue    of    expertise    is    less    likely    to    be operative   under   a   split   Congress.   These   risks   occur   regardless   of   the   legislation   that   actually   passes.   There are   billions   of   dollars   at   risk   surrounding   the   outcome   of   Congressional   control   and   elections.   These   risks can reasonably be expected to be managed through this contract on Congressional control. (Public Comment by Christopher Hehmeyer. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69717&amp;SearchText=christopher  .)

Although   some   commenters   claimed   election   outcomes   aren't   predictable   enough   to   be   a   useful hedge,   that   in   no   way   contradicts   or   even   diminishes   those   who   say   the   opposite.   At   most,   those commenters   do   not   see   hedging   utility   for   themselves.   They   cannot   credibly   say   that   all   the   firms who    identified    how    they    would    use    the    contracts    for    hedging    and    managing    their    risk    are mistaken   or    deficient   in   their   ability   to   recognize   risk   and   potential   tools   to   manage   or   mitigate that   risk  .   It   would   be   arbitrary   for   the   Commission   to   listen   only   to   the   few   who   assert   that   there is    no    hedging   use    case   for   anyone   when   most   others   who   state   that   they   would   use   the   product for themselves or their business.

Thus,   it    is    clear    that    businesses    consider    political    control    an    important    risk   to   be   hedged.   This reality   is   recognized   by   the   CFTC   in   the   CFTC's   Climate   Report   and   the   aforementioned   FSOC report.   It   noted   that,   'uncertainty   associated   with   policy   risk   is   already   penalizing   oil   companies that    are    investing    in    undeveloped    fossil    fuel    reserves'    and    'financial    market    participants    are already   looking   for   ways   to   manage   transition   risk   in   their   investment   portfolios.' (Commodity Futures Trading Commission. 2020. 'Managing Climate Risk in the U.S. Financial System'.) The   partisan makeup of Congress is a critical factor of policy risk that Kalshi's Contract addresses.

Even    if the above    evidence    was not    clear, the market    is best positioned    to    make    that determination,   not   the   Commission   or   Kalshi.   If   that   risk   is   too   tangential,   then   the   product   will be    a    commercial    failure.    With    a    contract    designed    for    hedging,    such    as    this    contract    with    its minimum    order    size    and    increased    position    limits,    the    market    and    market    participants    will    be able   to   determine   their   own   risk   management   strategies,   and   whether   the   contract   is   a   necessary component    of    their strategies    or    not. That    is a    decision    that is appropriately    left    to    the participants to decide for themselves.

## D. How the CONTROL contract can be used to hedge political   risk in practice

Note   that   the   CONTROL   contract   is   not   a   panacea   that   can   hedge   all   risks.   It   is   not   appropriate for    all    market    participants,    and    it    is    not    appropriate    for    all    risks.    The    CONTROL    contract    is appropriate   for    businesses    that   face   risk   impacted   by   partisan   political   control   of   Congress.   For those   businesses,    the    CONTROL    contract    can    be    an    important    hedge    and    part    of    their    overall risk   management   process.   A   typical   business   that   has   risks   that   are   impacted   by   political   control will   have   risks   that   are   appropriately   hedged   by   the   CONTROL   contract,   as   well   as   risks   that   are not.    The    following    examples    illustrate    the    risk    management    analysis    a    typical    business    will follow,   with   risks   that   are   impacted   by   political   control   and   risks   that   are   not,   in   order   to   illustrate how the contract fits into a broader risk management strategy that a firm may undertake.

Though    the    comment    file    (and    other    evidence    discussed    in    Section    C    above)    provide    many tangible   examples   of   firms   describing   the   risks   they   are   subject   to   and   would   use   the   Contract   to mitigate,    Section    D    will    include    detailed    descriptions    of    firms'    hedging.   Consider   an   enhanced geothermal   systems   company   producing   process   heat   for   industrial   processes   ( e.g. paper   mills). The   business   will   identify   the   potential   harms   that   the   company   faces.   Naturally,   there   are   many operational   risks   (what   if   a   rig   breaks?),   but   those   are   hardly   the   only   risks   they   face.   Some   other risks are enumerated below:

- Increases   in    transportation    costs,    which    could    affect   the   cost   of   transporting   specialized boring    equipment.    This    may    occur    due    to    increases    in    trucking    rates    or    changes    in gas/diesel   prices.   For   illustration,   let   us   say   that   every   1%   increase   in   transportation   costs costs the firm $200,000.
- Changes   in    the    price    they    can    sell    their    goods,    which    could    occur    due    to   rising   energy prices    or government    rebates.    For    example,    suppose    a    1%    increase    in    energy    costs increases firm profits by $500,000.
- A   shift   in   the   demand   curve   for   their   services.   There   is   a   subtle   but   important   distinction between    changes    in    services    demand    due    to    lower    prices    (which    in    economic    terms would   be    considered    a    move    along    the    same    demand    curve)    and    a    shift    in   the   demand curve,   whereby   demand   is    different    even    if    the    price    remains    the    same    as    before.    This scenario    could    occur    due    to    changes    in    environmental    rules    inducing    more    industrial firms    to    purchase    zero-carbon    electricity    or    changes    in    subsidies    and    tax    credits    that makes    their    product    more    affordable    for    firms    when    compared    to    fossil    fuel    services. Suppose    a ceteris    paribus 1%    increase    in    demand    would    increase    firm    profits    by $300,000.
- Changes   in   retained   profits.   This   could   occur   due   to   changing   revenues,   changing   costs, but also changing corporate tax rates-including marginal rates and depreciation treatment.   Suppose   reversing   the   2017   tax   cuts   would,   all   else   equal,   increase   firm   costs by $5 million.
- Changes    in    expansion    opportunities.    This    could    occur    due    to    changes    in    permitting standards   that   may   affect   the   speed   at   which   the   firm   can   develop   new   geothermal   sites   or changes in environmental standards may affect which sites can be developed.
- Changes   in    expansion    costs.    This    may   occur   due   to   changes   in   interest   rates   may   affect the   cost   of   financing   new   rigs   and   sites   or   changes   litigation   costs   from   NEPA   rules   that affect whether local groups can sue to stop a new site development.

The   firm    will    assess    what    are    the   factors   that   will   impact   each   of   their   potential   harms,   factors that   can   impact   the   likelihood   of   harms   materializing,   and   factors   that   can   impact   the   severity   of harms    should    they    materialize.    Not    every    harm    will    be    directly    impacted    by    elections    and political    control,    and    the    contract    will    not    be    a    part    of    every    hedging    strategy.    Looking    at    the transportation    cost    variable,    for    instance,    the    firm    may    decide    that    trucking    rates    are    likely unaffected   by   changes   in   Congressional   control   (though   in   2022,   Congress's   vote   on   the   freight rail    strike    did    likely    affect    trucking    prices,    a    firm    may    not   consider   this   frequent   enough   to   be worth   calculating)   and   gas   prices-while   related   to   political   variables-is   not   easily   anticipated   by changes   in   Congressional   majorities.   Regarding   their   output   price,   while   wholesale   energy   prices are    certainly    influenced    by    political    variables,    the    firm    may    determine    that    the    relationship    to elections   are   too   attenuated   to   evaluate.   Likewise,   while   permitting   standards   under   the   National Environmental    Policy    Act    is    a    top    priority    for    the    118th    Congress,    it's    widely    viewed    as    a bipartisan priority and thus unlikely to change regardless of how political conditions evolve.

But   the   business   may   determine   that   other   potential   harms   will   be   directly   impacted   by   elections and   political   control.    For   example,   retained   profits   and   shifts   in   the   demand   curve   are   influenced by    which    party    wins    Congress,    as    parties    have    substantially    different    positions    on    corporate taxes,    zero-carbon    subsidies,    and    emission    standards    for    industrial    processes. 30 As    a    result, depending    on    how    the    Congressional    election    plays    out,    certain    risks    become    more    salient. Mitigatory   actions   may   be   insufficient-the   firm   cannot   cost-efficiently   diversify   into   fossil   fuels to    reduce    their    exposure    to    clean    energy    subsidy    policy    in    the    same   way   a   corn   farmer   cannot cost-efficiently    diversify    into    an    uncorrelated    domain    in    order    to    reduce    their    exposure    to agriculture   prices.    A    firm    may   conduct   some   simple   math:   a   given   party   winning   may   increase the    probability    of    beneficial    tax    changes    by    20%,    creating    an    expectation    of    $1    million    ($5 million   *   20%)   more   in   retained   profits,   but   have   a   50%   chance   of   enacting   environmental   rules that    reduce    demand    by    10%,    creating   an   expectation   of   loss   of   $1.5   million   (50%   *   10%/1%   * $300,000).    As    a    result,    a    financial    hedging    product    may    be    more    appropriate.    Suppose    the probability    of    Party    X    winning    control    of    Congress    was    33.3%    and    the    price    of    the    $5000 contract    was    thus    $1,666.67.    In    that    case,    they    would    purchase    60    contracts    for    a    total    of $100,000.   If    the    adverse    event    does    occur,   the   firm   would   be   paid   $300,000   to   compensate   for their   expected   losses.   If   the   adverse   event   does   not   occur,   they   would   not   be   paid,   but   they   would reap the benefits of the more favorable event occurring.

Or   consider    a    firm    specializing    in    providing    specialized    lab-developed   tests   (LDTs)   for   certain genomic    conditions.    They    regularly    take    stock    of    their    company's    biggest    risk    factors.    They include:

- Changes    in    research    and    development    financing    costs.    Three    major    factors    include changes   in    funding   to   the   National   Science   Foundation   (NSF)   and   National   Institutes   of Health   (NIH),    changes    in    interest   rates,   and   research   and   development   tax   breaks.   They estimate   that   every   1   percentage   point   increase   in   interest   rates   increases   their   costs   by   $5 million.
- Changes   in   regulatory   approval   costs.   One   major   contributor   to   the   risk   is   the   probability that   Congress   changes   the   law   such   that   LDTs   are   treated   the   same   as   all   commercial-use diagnostic   tests,    thereby    changing    from    the    regulatory   remit   of   the   Center   for   Medicare Services   (CMS)   to    the    Food   and   Drug   Administration   (FDA),   where   approval   timelines are   typically   substantially   longer.   They   estimate   that   change   would   add   an   additional   six months to their approval process, which could cost them roughly $25 million per year.
- Changes    in revenue    and profit, which    could    be    affected    by    changes    in    Medicare reimbursement    rates,    which    may    affect    the    willingness    of    hospitals    to    offer    their    tests. They   estimate   that   a   reduction   of   1%   in   the   Medicare   reimbursement   rate   change   would cost   them   $10   million   per   year.   Another   factor   related   to   this   risk   is   changes   in   corporate taxes,    including    marginal    rates,    which    may    affect    overall    profitability.    They    estimate reversing the 2017 corporate tax reductions could cost their company $3 million.

The   firm    may    determine    that    NSF/NIH    funding   remains   a   bipartisan   priority   and   is   unlikely   to change   regardless    of    the    results    of    the    Congressional   elections.   Likewise,   the   effect   on   interest rates    from    Congress    may    be    too    attenuated    to effectively    assess;    but    they    determine    that legislation   to   change   the   regulatory   treatment   of   LDTs   is   more   likely   under   one   political   coalition than   another.    Since    they    are    a    firm    specializing    in    LDTs,    this    risk    could    be    quite   severe.   As   a result, they may wish to purchase a financial product that mitigates their risk exposure.

The   relationship    between   the   election   and   their   risks   is   sufficiently   direct   that   a   financial   hedge may   be    valuable.    For   instance,   suppose   they   believe   that   Party   X   winning   the   midterm   election would    result    in    a    16    percentage    point    increase    in    the    probability    that    LDT    reform    legislation becomes   law.   As   a   result,   the   election   of   Party   X   creates   $4   million   in   risk   through   that   channel alone   (0.16    *    25m).    However,   Party   X   winning   also   reduces   the   probability   of   costly   corporate tax    changes    by    33%,    thereby    reducing    the    expected    loss    by    $1    million.    As    a    result,    they    may wish   to    purchase    $3    million    of    hedging    products    to    zero    out    their    extant    election    risks,   which they   could   do   so   by   purchasing   3,000,000   contracts.   They   may   also   wish   to   only   partially   hedge by    purchasing    less    than    that.    Critically,    even    though    the    election    is    not    deterministic    on    their bottom    line,    it    has    clear    and    unambiguous    effects    on    risks    to    their    profitability    that    can    be hedged.

## E. Similarities to existing products

Many products listed on Commission-regulated exchanges mitigate risk in a similar manner to Kalshi's proposal. For instance, the CME Case-Shiller futures, which pay out based on an index that tracks the overall housing market, does not perfectly map onto any real estate portfolio. It is nonetheless a useful hedging product. Below we have assembled a table that highlights relevant characteristics of existing self-certified products.

Critically,    this    product    is    designed   for   firms,   ECPs,   and   other   large-scaled   hedgers,   although   of course   individuals   are   not   prohibited   from   trading,   as   required   by   Core   Principle   2.   The   contract order size (multiples of 5,000 contracts) is appropriate for large scale financial hedging activity.

While   it    is    true    that    not    all    participants   will   be   hedgers   (as   with   other   futures,   there   need   to   be some    non-hedgers    to    provide    liquidity),    with    the    high    contract    order    size    and    larger    position limits    for    ECPs    and    entities,    it    is    highly    likely    that    these    non-hedging    participants    will    be sophisticated    firms    and    specialized    liquidity    providers,    which    is    a    dynamic    found    in    many CFTC-regulated markets.

## G. Price basing and price discovery utilities

There    is extensive    price    basing    utility    for the    Contract.    As    discussed    earlier,    the    market frequently reprices    assets on    the basis    of changes    in election    expectations and    election outcomes. (There are scores of articles which could serve as examples, but some are: Noel Randewich. 2020. 'S&amp;P 500 futures rise as U.S. election suggests less regulatory risk.' Reuters ; Myra P. Saefong. 2020. 'Here's how   the U.S. presidential election could shake up the oil market.' Marketwatch ; Matthew Weaver. 2020. 'Congressional   elections could impact commodity prices most, expert says.' Capital Press .) Investment   banks   and    other    research    divisions    provide    clients    and    the    public   with recommendations   on   how   Congressional   outcomes   will   change   the   price   of   financial   assets;   an event   contract   on   election   outcomes   would   help   price   discovery   for   those   products.   For   example, in    2020,    projected    a    one   percentage   point   lower   unemployment   rate   and   a   0.6   percentage   point higher S&P 500 under a Democratic sweep. (Moody's Analytics.  2020. 'The Macroeconomic Consequences:   Trump vs. Biden'.

In   2012,   more   than   two   dozen   economists   signed   a   letter   to   the   Commission   supporting   arguing as much. Led by the late Nobel Laureate Kenneth Arrow in that 2012 letter, they wrote:

Political   event   futures   facilitate   price   discovery   in   other   asset   markets.   One   of   the   findings   of   [our]   research is   that   firms   and   industries   are   exposed   to   political   and   policy   risk.   Political   event   futures   provide   investors with    a    market-based    assessment    of    outcome    probabilities,    which    reduces    investors'    uncertainty    when trading other assets. (Nadex public comment by Zitzewitz et al. Available at https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/stellent/groups/public/@rulesandproducts/documents/ifdocs/ericzitzewitzltr0 20312.pdf  .)

Many    economists    have    done    the    same    for    Kalshi's    previous    submission,    including    Nobel Laureate   Robert   J.   Shiller,   Phillip   Tetlock,   Justin   Wolfers,   Scott   Sumner,   Michael   Abramowicz, Joseph   Grundfest,   Alex    Tabarrok,   Michael   Gibbs,   Jason   Furman,   David   Pennock,   Harry   Crane, David    Rothschild,    Koleman    Strumpf,    Ryan    Oprea,    and    others. (See public comments 70761, 69708, and 69735.) A    letter    signed    by    Pennock, Crane, Rothschild, and Strumpf argued,

Prediction   market   prices   in   political   and   policy   events   would   help   facilitate   price   discovery   in   a   wide-range of   asset   markets,   affecting   the   entire   economy   (note   that   pricing   is   freely   available   to   non-traders).   Political and   policy   events   matter:   they   expose   a   wide-variety   of   businesses   to   risk   that   traditional   financial   markets have    trouble    pricing.    A    robust    set    of   markets   for   political   and   policy   events   could   price   that   risk,   and,   if they    were    allowed    to    flourish,    could   eventually   grow   to   provide   hedges   where   uncertainty   is   particularly acute. (Public Comment by David Rothschild. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69735  .)

The   contracts   can   also   be   used   to   price   MGEX's   corporate   tax   futures   and   Kalshi's   other   political event    markets    related    to    bills    passing,    government    shutdowns,    and    the    debt    ceiling.    They    can also   be   used   to   price   other   nonpolitical   products,   like   equities   and   bonds.   For   example,   imagine   a junior    investment    bank    has    been    instructed    to    price    a    security.    That    price    is    reflective    of    the stocks'   net   present   value,   itself   a   reflection   of   future   expected   profits.   This   includes   political   risk. If    that    banker   knew   with   certainty   that   Republicans   will   take   control   of   Congress,   for   example, and    corporate    taxes    are    thus    less    likely    to    be    raised,    she    would    price    the    security    higher    than otherwise. Kalshi's contracts would help her in doing so.

Many   other   members   of    industry   and   businesses   stated   as   much   in   public   comments,   including Angelo   Lisboa,   Peter    Kempthorne,   Seth   Weinstein,   David   Pollard,   David   Trinh,   Eriz   Zitzewitz, James   Cust,    Caesar    Tabet,    Jorge    Paulo    Lemann,   Sebastian   Strauss,   Christopher   Hehmeyer,   and Ron    Conway. (See    public    comments    69662,    69703,    69718,    70743,    70763,    70747,    70753,    70765,    69684,    69721,    69717,    and 69714.) Margaret    Stumpp,    a senior    vice president    at Prudential    Financial and    a co-founder of Quantitative Management Associates, wrote,

…a   well    functioning    market    for    contingent    political    outcomes    should    improve    the   prices   at   which   other securities    (eg,    stocks,    bonds,    options,    etc…)    trade.    This    reduces    uncertainty,    enhances    capital    market liquidity, and improves the efficiency by lowering uncertainty. (Public Comment by Margaret Stumpp. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69722  .)

## On the standard for price basing

One   commenter   argued   that   there   is   no   hedging   or   price   basing   use   case   for   the   Contract   because there is no underlying cash market, unlike with traditional agricultural and energy derivatives. (Public Comment by Steve Suppan. Available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=70791  .)

This   is    not    the   standard   that   the   Commission   should   apply   in   its   decision.   It   is   not   the   standard applied   in Nadex (which   considered   whether   Nadex's   proposal   could   base   the   price   of   a   physical commodity,   financial   asset,   or   service);   it   is   also   not   the   standard   that   the   Commission   asked   the public   to   use   in   judging   Kalshi's   original   submission   (which   uses   the   same   test   as Nadex ).   To   do otherwise    and    limit    price    basing    to    only    contracts    with    an    underlying    cash    market    would    be arbitrary.

It   would   also   essentially   invalidate   the   existence   of   price   basing,   or   price   discovery,   for   the   vast majority   of   event   contracts,   which   do   not   have   underlying   cash   markets.   This   is   inconsistent   with Commission   precedent   and   would   upend   myriad   products   listed   with   the   Commission   in   the   last two   decades.   Many   derivatives   products   currently   listed   with   Commission-registered   Designated Contract Markets do not have underlying cash markets, such as:

- -Macroeconomic indicator derivatives (e.g. Gross Domestic Product contracts)
- -Tax rate derivatives (e.g. MGEX's corporate tax rate futures)
- -Weather derivatives (e.g. hurricane and heating/cooling degree days contracts)
- -Carbon offset futures (e.g. CME's CBL Global Emissions Offset Futures)
- -Housing    price    index    futures    (e.g.    CME's    futures    based    on    Case-Shiller    house    price indices)

Because   of    the    permissionless    nature    of    self-certification,    the    Commission    has    not specifically stated    that    the    above    contracts    have    hedging    or    price    basing    utilities;    the    Commission    did    so implicitly    by    permitting    their   registration   for   decades.   However,   in   some   cases,   the   Commision has   been   specific.   For   example,   the   Commission   actively   determined   that   futures   which   pay   off based   on    the    amount    of    box    office    revenue    a    motion    picture    produces    has    price   basing   utility, even though it has no cash commodity market. ('The   Commission   found   that   the   contracts   can   perform   hedging   and   price   discovery   purposes…The   Commission analysis   applied   three   tests   to   determine   whether   or   not   these   contracts   could   be   used   by   an   identifiable   segment   of an industry or industries for hedging or price basing on more than an occasional basis.')

The   price   basing   value   of   Kalshi's   proposal   is   no   different.   A   market-based   determination   of   the probability   of    a   given   party   taking   control   of   a   given   chamber   of   Congress   would   be   helpful   in basing    the    price    of    politically    sensitive    commodities    (such    as    oil),    assets    (such    as    politically sensitive   stocks,   like   cannabis   and   energy   firms),   and   services   (such   as   investments   in   politically sensitive sectors).

There   is    no    hard    and    fast    rule    defining    when    price    basing    does   and   doesn't   occur   in   a   manner sufficient    to   justify   a   CFTC-listed   derivative.   In   some   cases,   the   Commission/Commission   staff indicated    that    price    basing    is    when    a    commodity    future    specifically    bases    the    price    of    its underlying    commodity;    in    other    cases,    also    related    commodities; (For   example,   the   CFTC's   rule   on   Exempt   Commercial   Markets   describes   price   basing   this   way   at   some   points,   as does    the    definition   provided   on   the   Commission's   website;   at   other   points,   the   rule   refers   to   price   basing   as   being about only the underlying commodity itself.) in    other    cases    (including Kalshi's), also non-commodities. (For    example,    the    Commission's    decision    in Nadex or    the    Commission's    questions    for    the    public    in    Kalshi's original    submission    specifically    discuss    whether    the    contracts    can    be    used    for    basing    the    price    of    a    physical commodity,   financial   asset,   or   service.   The   Commodity   Exchange   Act   also   does   not   specify   what   derivatives   must   or should be managing price risk/discovering prices/price basing for.)

Several   Commissioners   have   indicated   in   statements   they   believe   that   intangible   event   contracts, sans   cash    markets,    have    price    basing    utility.    This    includes    Commissioners   Brian   Quintenz   and Dan   Berkovitz   in    the    case    of    ErisX's    proposed    NFL    Futures    Contracts;    Commissioner    Sharon Brown-Hruska    when    discussing    how    event    contracts    may    have    primarily    price    discovery    as opposed   to   hedging   functions;   as   well   as   Commissioners   Quintenz   and   Mark   Wetjen   on   election contracts   themselves. (Statement of Commissioner Dan M. Berkovitz Related to Review of ErisX Certification of NFL Futures Contracts, April 7, 2021, available at https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/SpeechesTestimony/berkovitzstatement040721#_ftn27 Note : Commissioner Berkovitz argues that, although he does not believe ErisX demonstrated price basing utility, he does clarify that it could have such utility, and is open to being shown that.) (The Functions of Derivative Markets and the Role of the Market Regulator, May 18, 2006. Dr. Sharon Brown-Hruska, Commissioner, available at. https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/SpeechesTestimony/opabrownhruska-45) (See Public Comment on Kalshi Contract from Brian   D. Quintenz, available at: https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=70786) (See Public Comment on Kalshi Contract from Mark Wetjen, available at: https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=70771) In   fact,   in   its   release   discussing   event   contracts   in   2008,   Commission staff   used   election   markets   to   describe   how   price   discovery   in   event   contracts   could   work. (As noted above, the Commission's release stated that 'The trading of such contracts can facilitate the discovery of information by assigning probabilities, through market-derived prices, to discrete eventualities. For example, a binary contract based on whether a particular person will run for the presidency in 2012, can pay a fixed $100 to its buyer if and only if that individual runs for the presidency in 2012. If the contract's traders believe that the likelihood of the individual's candidacy in 2012 is around 17 percent, the price of the contract will be around $17, and will approximate the market's consensus expectation of the individual's candidacy.' https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2008/05/07/E8-9981/concept-release-on-the-appropriate-regulatory-treat ment-of-event-contracts) This utility was true then, and it remains true today. (The    fact    that    the    concept    release    predated    Dodd-Frank   is   of   no   consequence.   The   point   is   that   the   contract   has obvious   price   basing   utility,   and   even   if   Dodd-Frank, arguendo ,   reincarnated   the   economic   utility   test,   the   contract passes because of its price basing utility.)

The   law,    similarly,    does    not    restrict    price   basing   to   specifically   the   commodity   upon   which   the derivative   is   based.   Specifically,   the   CEA   says,   'transactions   subject   to   this   Act   are   entered   into regularly   in   interstate   and   international   commerce   and   are   affected   with   a   national   public   interest by   providing   a   means   for   managing   and   assuming   price   risks,   discovery   prices,   or   disseminating pricing information through trading in liquid, fair and financially secure trading facilities.'

Even    if    the Commission    had    used    the    standard    whereby    price    basing    only    applies    to    an underlying    cash    market    (and    it    has    not)    at    one    point,    why    should    it    continue    to    do    so    in    the future?   The   fact   that   a   derivative   can   provide   price   discovery   for   a   different   commodity,   asset,   or service    is    consistent    with    the    CEA 's    price    discovery    goals;    stopping    a    derivative    from    being listed   on   that   basis   is   inconsistent   with   it.   Moreover,   the   fact   that   a   derivative   could   be   used   for price   discovery   for   another   kind   of   product   or   service   suggests   relation,   falling   within   one   of   the common definitions Commission staff use in describing price basing.

That   being   said,   if   the   standard   was   'related'   commodity,   election   markets   are   patently   related   to major commodity    markets, such as energy    and agricultural markets.    The United    States government   is   a    major    participant    in   such   markets,   both   directly   trading   in   them   and   providing significant    industry    subsidies.    In    addition,    research    has    consistently    found    a    link    between elections   and   changes   in   oil   prices,   demonstrating   that   the   market   is   using   election   probabilities to base the price of commodities and commodity futures. (E.g. Erik   Snowberg,   Justin   Wolfers   and   Eric   Zitzewitz.   'Partisan   Impact   on   the   Economy'.   Journal   of   Economic Perspectives. 2004.)

## H. Other comments on hedging and pricing issues

A   few   commenters   disputed   the   hedging   and/or   price   basing   utilities   of   the   contract   in   ways   that are not addressed by the above. They said:

- -The   $25,000   position   limit   was   not   enough   to   constitute   hedging   for   most   businesses   and institutions.    In    Kalshi's    new    submission,    the    position    limits    have    been    raised,    with    an emphasis on those with established hedging needs.
- -Election   outcomes   are    not    sufficiently    predictable    in   order   to   justify   a   hedging   product. Above,    evidence    is    provided    that    market    participants    extensively    discuss,    hedge,    and price    election    risk    well    before    a    new    Congress    is    even    seated.    If    the    market    is    already doing so, then there is no place to say otherwise.
- -Election   risk   can   be   de-risked   through   other   equities   and   derivatives   products.   However, other   products    are    insufficient    to    hedge    electoral    risk,    which   is   a   unique   risk   that   could flow through many    different parts of a firm's business. Moreover,    there is no 'uniqueness' requirement that hedging products have.
- -One    commenter,    Richard    Q.    Wendt,    argued    that    hedging    behavior    would    reduce    the Contract's    informational    utility,    since    hedgers    are    less    price    sensitive    than    speculators. However,    large,    liquid    markets    with    hedgers,    speculators,    and    liquidity    dealers    are broadly able to simultaneously    provide    accurate pricing    information and    hedging opportunities.   For    example,    when    the    price    of    an    oil    future    is    pushed    down    below    fair market   value    by   a   price   insensitive   hedger,   speculators   come   in   and   push   the   price   back up to take advantage of the discrepancy between the current price and the fair price.
- -The    Commission,    in    its    questions,    questioned    whether    it    should    be    considering    what percentage    of    a    given    market    must    be    made    of    hedgers    versus    speculators;    as    well    as whether    hedging    needs    can    be    merely    theoretical    or    need    'evidence'.    These    standards were not applied against Nadex,    ErisX, or any other contract proposed to the Commission.   They   are   not    found    in    law,    rule,    or    regulation;    although   Kalshi's   contract clearly   does   have   established   hedging   utility,   it   would   be   arbitrary   for   the   Commission   to impose novel burdens on it.

## APPENDIX G (CONFIDENTIAL) - COMPLIANCE WITH CORE PRINCIPLES

## Compliance with Core Principles

The   Exchange   has    conducted    a    comprehensive    analysis    of    the   designated   contract   market   core principles   ('Core   Principles')   as   set   forth   in   Part   38   of   the   Act. (CFTC Rule 40.2(a)(3)(v) requires a "concise explanation and analysis of the product and its compliance" with core principles.  The rule also allows the DCM to incorporate information contained in documents supporting or relied upon to reach these conclusions.  We note that we have relied significantly on the rulemaking record for for CFTC Industry Filing 22-022:  Review and Public Comment Period of KalshiEx Proposed Congressional Control Contracts Under CFTC Regulation 40.11, available at https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/CommentList.aspx?id=7311. As a result, we incorporate the comment file for CFTC Industry Filing 22-022 into this submission.) The   Core   Principles   relevant   to the Contract are outlined and discussed in further detail below:

Core   Principle   2   -   Compliance   with   Rules   and   Impartial   Access: The   Exchange   has   adopted the    Rulebook,    which    provides    the    requirements    for    accessing    and    trading    on    the    Exchange. Pursuant    to    Chapter    3    of    the    Rulebook,    Members    must    utilize    the    Exchange's    services    in    a responsible   manner,   comply   with   the   rules   of   the   Rulebook   ('Rules'),   cooperate   with   Exchange investigations,    inquiries,    audits,    examinations    and    proceedings,    and    observe    high    standards    of integrity,    market    conduct,    commercial    honor,    fair    dealing,    and    equitable    principles    of    trade. Chapter   3    of    the    Rulebook    also    provides   clear   and   transparent   access   criteria   and   requirements for    Exchange    Members.    Trading    the    Contract    will    be    subject    to    all   the   rules   established   in   the Rulebook, which are aimed at enforcing market integrity and customer protection.

In    particular,    Chapter    5    of    the    Rulebook    sets   forth   the   Exchange's   Prohibited   Transactions   and Activities    and   specifically   prescribes   the   methods   by   which   Members   trade   contracts,   including the    Contract.    Pursuant    to    Rule    3.2,    the    Exchange    has    the    right    to    inspect    Members    and    is required    to    provide    information    concerning    its    business,    as    well    as    contracts    executed    on    the Exchange   and   in   related   markets.   Chapter   9   of   the   Rulebook   sets   forth   the   Exchange's   Discipline and   Rule   Enforcement   regime.   Pursuant   to   Rule   9.2,   each   Member   is   required   to   cooperate   with an    Exchange    investigation    by    making    their    books    and    records    available    to    the    Exchange.    The Exchange's Market Regulation Department performs trade practice surveillance, market surveillance,   and   real-time   market   monitoring   to   ensure   that   Members   adhere   to   the   Rules   of   the Exchange. The Market Surveillance Department reserves the authority to exercise its investigatory and enforcement power where potential rule violations are identified.

Core    Principle    2    also stipulates    that    an    exchange    shall    establish    means    to    provide    market participants    with    impartial    access    to    the    market.    Chapter    3    of    the    Rulebook,    and    Rule    3.1    in particular,    provides    clear    and    transparent    access    criteria    and    requirements    for    Members.    The Exchange    will    apply    access    criteria    in    an    impartial    manner,    including    through    the    application process described in Rule 3.1.

## Core Principle 3 - Contract not Readily Susceptible to Manipulation:

Core   Principle   3   and   Rule   38.200   provide   that   a   DCM   shall   not   list   for   trading   contracts   that   are readily    susceptible    to    manipulation.    The    Exchange's    marketplace    and    contracts,    including    this Contract,    have    been    designed    in    accordance    with    this    fundamental    principle.    The    Exchange maintains    various    safeguards    against    outcome    manipulation    and    other    forms    of    manipulation, including,    (i)    automatic    trade    surveillance    and    suspicious    behavior    detection,    (ii)    Rulebook prohibition, Member certification, and notification, (iii) Member monitoring and know-your-customer   verification,   and   (iv)    sanctions.    These    safeguards    render    the    Contract    not readily susceptible to manipulation.

(i) Automatic    trade    surveillance    and    suspicious    behavior    detection :    The   Exchange's   trade monitoring   and   market   surveillance   systems   compute   statistics   using   information   from   all   trades that   occur   on   the   Exchange   over   a   range   of   timeframes,   ranging   from   per   trade   to   the   full   history of    trading    activity.    These    statistics    are    geared    towards    identifying    unusual    trading    activity   and outlier    behaviors.    If    the    trade    monitoring    and    market    surveillance    system    identifies    behavior deemed   to    be    unusual,   the   Exchange's   compliance   personnel   have   the   ability   to   investigate   and determine    applicable    sanctions,    including    limits    to    or    suspension    of    a    Member's    access    to    the Exchange.

(ii) Rulebook   prohibition,   member   certification   and   notification: The   Exchange's   Rulebook includes    various provisions    that prohibit    manipulative behaviors.    As noted    above    in    the discussion    of    Core    Principle    2,    the    Exchange's    Rulebook    gives    the    Exchange    the    authority    to investigate   potential    violations    of    its    rules.    Pursuant    to    Rule   3.2,   the   Exchange   has   the   right   to inspect    Members'    books    and    records,    as    well    as    contracts    executed    on    the    Exchange    and    in related    markets.    Pursuant    to    Rule    9.2,    each   member   is   required   to   cooperate   with   an   Exchange investigation   by   making   their   books   and   records   available   to   the   Exchange   for   investigation.   The Exchange's Market Regulation Department performs trade practice surveillance, market surveillance,   and   real-time   market   monitoring   to   ensure   that   Members   adhere   to   the   Exchange's rules.    The    Rulebook    also    imposes    sanctions    on    Members    who    break    rules.    Potential    penalties include    fines,    disgorgement,    and    revocation    of    membership    in    Kalshi. Only    Members    are allowed   to   trade   on   the   Exchange,   and   the   Exchange   requires   its   Members   to   strictly   comply   with the   Rulebook.   Members   cannot   complete   the   account   creation   process   and   trade   on   the   Exchange until they certify that they have read the Exchange's rules and agree to be bound by them.

In   addition,   the   Exchange   requires   applicants   for   membership   to   represent   and   covenant   that   the applicant    will not    trade on    any contract    where they    have    access    to    material    non-public

information,   may   exert    influence    on    the   market   outcome,   or   are   an   employee   or   affiliate   of   the Source   Agency.   In   order   to   further   reduce   the   potential   for   manipulation,   the   Exchange   maintains a    dedicated    page    on    the    trading    portal    that    lists    all    the    source    agencies    and    their    associated contracts,    together    with    a    warning    that    employees    of    those    companies,    persons    with    access    to material    non-public    information,    and    persons    with    an    ability    to    exert    direct    influence    on    the underlying   of   a   contract   are   prohibited   from   trading   on   those   contracts.   This   page   is   intended   to serve    as    an    effective    means    of    raising    Members'    awareness    of    these    rules    and    prohibitions, further    reducing    the    potential    for    manipulation.    Similarly,    the    Exchange    places    a    prominent notice    on    each    contract    page    that    notifies    Members    of    the    prohibition    on    trading    the    Contract while    employed    by its Source    Agency,    trading the Contract    on    the    basis    of    non-public information,   and   trading   the   Contract   while   having   the   ability   to   exert   influence   on   the   Contract's Market Outcome.

(iii) Member   monitoring   and   know-your-customer   verification   ('KYC') :   The   Exchange   has a   robust   KYC   process.   The   KYC   process   is   an   important   tool   that   helps   flag   and   uncover   higher risk    traders    before    they    become    Members    of    the    platform.    The    Exchange's    KYC    process leverages    technology    to    develop    a    clear    and    proper    understanding    of    its    members,    and    the various risks they may pose with respect to market integrity and fairness, including manipulation.    During    the application    process, applicants    are required    to    share    personally identifiable    information,    such    as    their    full    legal    name,   identification   number,   date   of   birth,   and address   with   the   Exchange.   Additionally,   applicants   are   required   to   provide   a   government   issued photo    ID    (passport,    drivers    license,    etc.)    that    is    used    to    validate    the    personally    identifiable information   shared   by   the   applicant   during   the   application   process.   Applicant   information   is   run through    a    comprehensive    set    of    databases    that    are    actively    compiled    and    maintained    by    an independent   third    party. The   databases    are   utilized   by   the   Exchange   to   identify   applicants   that are    employees   or   affiliates   of   various   governments   and   other   agencies.   Moreover,   the   databases can    identify    known    close    relatives    and    associates    of    such    people    as    well.    Applicants    that    are flagged   go   through   enhanced   due   diligence,   including   manual   review,   as   part   of   the   onboarding process.

Additionally,   as    part    of    the    KYC   process,   the   Exchange   runs   applicants   through   adverse   media databases.    The    adverse    media    dataset    is    a    real-time    structured    data    feed    of    companies    and individuals   subject   to   adverse   media.   Monitoring   thousands   of   news   sources,   business   and   trade journals,    in    addition   to   local,   regional   and   national   newspapers,   the   adverse   media   feed   isolates and    highlights    any    entities    or    individuals    subject    to    a    range    of    adverse    media.    The    Exchange utilizes    the    database    to    trigger    enhanced    due    diligence,    because    applicants    with   adverse   media may    be more    likely to engage    in certain types of unlawful activity including    market manipulation.

The    Exchange    engages    in    active    and    continuing    KYC    checks.    The    KYC    checks    are    initially performed   upon   application,    and    the   Exchange   then   monitors   its   Members   on   an   ongoing   basis by    running    member    information    through    the    KYC    databases.    If    material    new    information concerning   an   existing   Member   is   at   some   point   added   to   a   database,   the   Exchange's   system   will flag    the    Member    even    if    the    cause    for    the    flag    was    not    extant    at    the    time    of    the    Member's application. That Member will then go through enhanced due diligence.

In addition, the Exchange shall engage in an additional three-step protection process.

- a. Before    being    allowed    to    participate,    market    participants    must    certify    that    they    are    not implicated by the prohibition list in Appendix B
- b. Before   being   allowed   to   participate,   market   participants   must   certify   that   they   do   not   have access to material nonpublic information
- c. The   Exchange's   surveillance   staff   will   conduct   manual   background   checks   and   interviews with   the   top   traders   in   a   market,   as   well   as   randomly   selected   participants,    to   monitor   and enforce the gating rules

(iv) Sanctions :    Exchange   Members   must   agree   to    the    terms    and    conditions    of    the   Exchange's Rulebook   before   being   allowed   to   trade.   As   a   result,   Members   are   subject   to   disciplinary   actions and    fines    for    engaging    in    improper    market    conduct    that    is    prohibited    by    the    Exchange's Rulebook.   In   the   event   that   suspicious   trading   activity   is   detected   and   results   in   an   investigation initiated    by    the    Exchange,    market    participants    are    required    to    provide    the    Exchange    with information    relevant to the scope    of    the investigation    under    Rule    3.2.    Chapter    9    of the Exchange's   Rulebook   details   the   process   for   discipline   and   rule   enforcement.   Disciplinary   action can   range   from   a   letter   of   warning   to   fines   to   referral   to   governmental   authorities   that   can   result in criminal prosecution.

In    addition    to    these    global    policies    and    safeguards,    there    are    a    number    of    contract    specific attributes and considerations that render the Contract not readily susceptible to manipulation. In    addition    to    these    global    policies    and    safeguards,    there    are    a    number    of    contract    specific attributes and considerations that render the Contract not readily susceptible to manipulation. Congress.gov   is    a    division    of    the    U.S.   Library   of   Congress   with   multiple   checks   on   publishing data.   For   example,   given   that   Congress.gov   is   publicly   available   for   any   Congressional   official   or member   of   the   public   to   access,   discrepancies   between   whether   an   individual   has   or   has   not   been made    leader    on    Congress.gov    (and    their    party    membership)    would    likely    be    detected    quickly, making    manipulation of the website    unlikely. In addition    to the general    availability of Congress.gov,   the   Contract   relates   to   a   high-profile   event,   which   is   the   subject   of   immense   media coverage   and   interest.   Thus,   any   attempt   to   publish   incorrect   data   would   be   quickly   noticed   and identified.    The    negative    consequences    that    Library    of    Congress    staff    would    likely    face    for

publishing   incorrect    data    in    order    to    intentionally    manipulate    the   market   would   also   serve   as   a strong disincentive from attempting manipulation.

With   regard   to   possible   outcome   manipulation,   it   is   clear   that   the   totality   of   U.S.   Congressional elections   are   not   readily   susceptible   to   manipulation.   The   only   groups   that   can   directly   affect   the leadership    decisions    are    the    U.S.    Senate    and    U.S.    House    of    Representatives.    Members    of    this group    are    extremely    unlikely    to    attempt    intentional    manipulation    of    the    leadership    of    their chambers   to   settle   the   Contract   a   certain   way--the   economic   and   political   ramifications   of   which are    far    greater    than    the    position    limits    on    the    Exchange.    Instead    of    considering    the    potential outcome   of    the    Contract    on    the    Exchange,    legislators    involved   with   the   confirmation   are   more likely to incorporate other factors into their decision-making    process,    such as political circumstances.   The   weight   of   these   factors   is   much   greater   than   any   consideration   of   a   market   on the   Exchange   -   thus   manipulation   for   the   sole   purpose   of   influencing   the   outcome   of   the   Contract is    unlikely.   The   amount   of   media   attention   and   financial   reporting   done   on   potential   changes   in leadership   means   that   opportunistic   attempts   to   manipulate   reporting   to   affect   prices   is   likely   to be   ignored   given   the   amount   of   attention   given   to   the   subject.   Members   of   Congress   also   have   a sworn   duty   to   represent   their   constituents   and   would   not   manipulate   Congressional   processes   for private    gain.    Their    finances    are    also    heavily    monitored    and    subject    to    public    disclosure    and scrutiny.

Moreover,    election    officials    swear    an    oath    to    faithfully    uphold    the    results    of    the    elections. Tampering    with    federal    elections    is    a    serious    federal    crime    and    the    consequences    of    violating would    be    quite    severe.    V ote    counting    is    also    supervised    by    trained    members    of    both    parties, whose   incentive   is    to    detect    any    deviation    or    error.    In    addition,    any    close    election    results    in   a recount,    and    therefore    any    manipulation    by    an    individual    or    small    group    of    individuals    could reasonably be expected to be detected.

As   further    evidence,    consider    the    history    of    political    control   contracts.   University   of   Michigan professor    Paul    Rhode    and    Wake    Forest    professor    Coleman    Strumpf    conducted    a    systematic review    of    the    history    of    prediction    markets    both    domestically    and    abroad,    documenting    their emergence   back   to    '16th    century    Italy,    18th    century    Britain    and    Ireland,    19th    century    Canada and   20th   century   Australia   and   Singapore.' (Paul Rhode and Coleman Strumpf. 2003. 'Historical Prediction Markets: Wagering on Presidential Elections'.)  (Paul Rhode and Coleman Strumpf. 2012. 'The Long History of Political Betting Markets: An International Perspective.') In   the   United   States,   they   were   popular   from   the post-Civil   War   period   until   the   Great   Depression   tarnished   the   image   of   Wall   Street   in   the   public imagination. They wrote,

Although   vast    sums    of    money    were    at   stake,   we   are   not   aware   of   any   evidence   that   the political    process    was    seriously    corrupted    by    the    presence    of    a    wagering    market.    This analysis   suggests   many   current   concerns   about   the   appropriateness   of   prediction   markets are not well founded in the historical record. (Paul Rhode and Coleman Strumpf. 2003. 'Historical Prediction Markets: Wagering on Presidential Elections'.)

Today,   election   trading   is   alive   and   well   in   other   democracies   like   the   United   Kingdom,   without documented   attempts   at-let   alone   successful-manipulation.   Any   effort   to   coordinate   votes   for   the sake   of    the    Contract    would    take   significant   planning   and   coordination,   and   is   unlikely   to   occur because   none   can   know   beforehand   what   the   margin   of   victory   is   going   to   be.   Accordingly,   the organizers    would    have    no    way    of    knowing    the    size    of    the    conspiracy    they    would    need    to orchestrate.   Such   an   attempt   would   be   implausible.   Large-scale   coordination   of   sufficient   volume to    affect    an    election    of    even    a    few    hundred    thousand    voters    (as    exists   in   the   smallest   states   or mid-size cities) would be too large to avoid scrutiny from market surveillance and counter-partisan   mobilization.   Nearly   every   commodity   market   can   be   altered   if   tens   to   hundreds of thousands    of people    all conspire    simultaneously;    however, it is nearly    impossible    to coordinate   across   tens   of   thousands   of   individuals   without   being   visible.   If   this   was   a   viable   path, then   highly   motivated   partisans   would   already   attempt   to   do   so   and   profit   from   the   myriad   ways they    could    profit    by    knowing    the    outcome    of    an    election    beforehand.    The    reason    this    type    of criminal activity does not occur is that such a scheme would be readily detected.

One    may    also    imagine    that    a    coordinated    group    of    individuals    may    conspire    to    manipulate market   prices    to    give    the    false    impression    of   candidate   'momentum',   thus   potentially   harming the   democratic   process.   This   concern,   too,   is   empirically   implausible.   Coleman   and   Strumpf   in   a later   paper   examined   previous   American   political   prediction   markets   and   found   that   no   previous effort   at   manipulation   were   capable   of   sustaining   anything   more   than   fleeting   price   movements. They    wrote, 'we    find little evidence    that political stock    markets can    be systematically manipulated   beyond   short   time   periods.' (Paul Rhode and Koleman Strumpf. 2005. 'Manipulating   Political Stock Markets: A Field Experiment and a Century of Observational Data.') Moreover,   the   markets   examined   were   much   smaller and   thus   even   more   prone   to   manipulation   than   a   fully   regulated,   liquid   market   like   a   DCM.   As   a result,    the    probability    of    manipulation    is    implausible.    Indeed,    as    George    Mason    University professor    Robin    Hanson    and    University    of    California    at    Santa    Barbara    professor    Ryan    Oprea found    in one    paper, one    major reason    why    political    contracts    are    rather    invulnerable    to manipulation   attempts   is   that   any   attempt   to   manipulate   prices   induces   informed   counter-parties to    enter    on   the   other   side   of   the   market. (Robin Hanson and Ryan Oprea. 2008. 'A Manipulator Can Aid Prediction Market Accuracy.' Economica .) In   fact,   the   greater   the   attempts   to   jazz   up   one   side's prices,    the    greater    the    returns    to    becoming    an    informed    trader.    As    University    of    Michigan economist    Justin    Wolfers    and    Dartmouth    economist    Eric    Zitzewitz    write    regarding    previous political    contracts,    'none    of    these    attempts    at    manipulation    had    a    discernible    effect    on    prices, except during a short transition phase.' (Justin Wolfers and Eric Zitzewitz. 2006. 'Prediction Markets in Theory and Practice'.)

There   are   also   legal   protections   against   disrupting   or   pressuring   the   voting   process   of   others.   For example,   the    secret    ballot    is    a    guaranteed    right    in    the    vast    majority    of    state    constitutions,    and statutorily protected in the rest.

The   lack   of   substantiated   attempts   at   manipulation   of   political   control   contracts   by   such   methods is    quite    telling    in    the    context    of    how    much    is    already    at    stake    in    American    elections.    The economic    impacts    of    elections    themselves    dwarf    the    value    of    Kalshi's    contracts    many,    many times   over.   Likely   trillions   in   stock   value   are   deeply   dependent   on   elections;   entire   sectors,   firms, and   places    can    be    favored    by    a    candidate    for    office;    and   almost   every   actor   in   the   economy   is directly   affected   by   tax   rates.   The   marginal   addition   of   Kalshi's   contract   will   not   change   whether or    not    elections    are    events    of    enormous    consequence,   and   thus   not   increase   anyone's   incentive meaningfully    to    attempt    manipulation    of    several    hundred    elections    across    the    United    States. American    elections    are not    readily    susceptible    to manipulation,    full    stop,    thanks    to    their decentralized   nature,   strong   political   norms,   and   laws   protecting   the   vote.   Elections,   unlike   many other   reference   markets   or   events   that   have   CFTC-derivatives   trading   on   them,   are   governed   by multiple    law    enforcement    agencies    whose    very    existence    is    to    prevent    and    detect    election manipulation   and   fraud.   This   includes   the   Federal   Election   Commission,   the   federal   Department of    Justice,    state    election    commissions,    state    Secretaries    of    State,    and   state   ethics   commissions. History has shown that these agencies are very good at their job.

Importantly,    the    fact    that    these    contracts    have    already    been trading on    venues    in    the    United States    by    Americans    should    demonstrate    that    they    do    not    cause    manipulation    and    that    the markets   are    safe.    In    2014,    the   Commission   granted   PredictIt,   a   new   unregistered   trading   venue dedicated    to    election    and    political    event    contracts,    a    no-action    letter.    Since    then,    PredictIt    has traded   more   than   one   billion   shares. (PredictIt. https://www.predictit.org/insight/aHR0cHM6Ly9hbmFseXNpcy5wcmVkaWN0aXQub3JnL3Bvc3QvMTg4NzQ3O DgwMDQzL2EtcHJlZGljdGFibGUtbmV3c2xldHRlci0xMTExOSNtb2JpbGU=) This   information--that   billions   of   dollars   can   be   traded   on contemporary exchange-traded political control contracts without creating manipulation concerns--was   not   available   to   the   Commission   the   last   time   it   considered   similar   event   contracts in    2012. (Nadex order. 2012. CFTC. https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/idc/groups/public/@rulesandproducts/documents/ifdocs/nadexorder040212.p df) Election    trading    is    also    common    over-the-counter    in    the    United    States    among    the largest financial institutions and high net worth individuals. (Public Comment by Angelo Lisboa. Available at: https://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=69662)

Americans    can    also    readily    access    cryptocurrency-based    decentralized    exchanges    (DEXes) which    offer political control markets on platforms such    as Polymarket    and    Omen. (Polymarket. https://polymarket.com/market/will-gavin-newsom-be-governor-of-california-on-december-31-2021)  (Omen.eth. https://omen.eth.link/#/0x95b2271039b020aba31b933039e042b60b063800/finalize)

Polymarket's   markets   on    Congressional    control   have   traded   millions. (Polymarket. https://polymarket.com/market/will-trump-win-the-2020-us-presidential-election) In   total,   more   than   half of    volume    ever    traded    on    Polymarket    (north    of    $50,000,000)    were    traded    on    election-related markets.    These    platforms    are    not    registered    with    the    Commission    as    Designated    Contract Markets    (DCMs),    but    frequently    host    such    markets.    Despite    the    CFTC's    January    2022    order against   Polymarket,    it    is    still    readily    accessible    by    Americans    via   VPN.   Betfair   had   more   than $500   million   traded   on   the   2020   election. (Seen at this link: https://www.actionnetwork.com/politics/2020-election-odds-trump-vs-biden-presidential-race-sportsbook-rovell) There   are   no   indications   that   the   markets   caused   or induced an attempt to manipulate elections, let alone a successful manipulation.

With    regards to possible    price manipulation,    in    practice,    there    are    few    actors who    hold meaningful    non-public    information    that    could    affect    the    value    of    the    Contract.    Nonetheless, Kalshi   is   taking   a   large   step   to   prohibit   a   large   number   of   political   actors   from   participating   in   the contract.    Further,    as    part    of    the    Exchange's    KYC    verification    and    monitoring    system,    the Exchange    also    cross-checks    applicants    against    comprehensive    databases.    In    particular,    the Exchange    will    check    whether    any    Members    trading    on    this    Contract    are    on    databases    of Politically   Engaged   Persons.   The   Exchange   further   cross   checks   applicants   against   databases   of family    members    and    close    associates    of Politically    Engaged    Persons.    These    checks    help    to further    reduce    the    potential    for    trading    violations    and    further    increase    the    integrity    of    this Contract.

Core   Principle   4   -   Prevention   of   Market   Disruption: Trading   in   the   Contracts   will   be   subject to    the    Rules   of   the   Exchange,   which   include   prohibitions   on   manipulation,   price   distortion,   and disruption    to    the    cash    settlement    process.    Trading    activity    in    the    Contract    will    be    subject    to monitoring   and   surveillance    by    the    Exchange's    Market    Surveillance    Department.    In   particular, the    Exchange's    trade    surveillance    system    monitors    the    trading    on    the    Exchange    to    detect    and prevent   activities   that   threaten   market   integrity   and   market   fairness   including   manipulation,   price distortion,    and    disruptions    of    the    settlement    process.    The    Exchange    also    performs    real-time market    surveillance.    The    Exchange    sets    position    limits,    maintains    both    a    trade    practice    and market    surveillance    program    to    monitor    for    market    abuses,    including    manipulation,    and    has disciplinary procedures for violations of the Rulebook.

Core    Principles    7    and    8 -    Availability   of    General    Information    and    Daily    Publication    of Trading Information: Core    Principles 7 and 8, implemented    by Regulations Sections Subsections   38.400,   38.401,   38.450,   and   38.451,   require   a   DCM   to   make   available   to   the   public accurate   information   regarding   the   contract   terms   and   conditions,   daily   information   on   contracts such    as    settlement    price,    volume,    open    interest,    and    opening    and    closing    ranges,    the    rules, regulations,    and    mechanisms    for    executing    transactions    on    or    through    the    facilities    of    the contract   market,   and   the   rules   and   specifications   describing   the   operation   of   the   contract   market's electronic matching platform.

Rule   2.17   of   the   Rulebook   sets   forth   the   rules   for   publicizing   information.   The   Rulebook   and   the specifications   of    each   contract   are   made   public   on   the   Exchange   website   and   remain   accessible via    the    platform.    The    Exchange    will    post   non-confidential   materials   associated   with   regulatory filings, including the Rulebook,    at the time the Exchange    submits    such filings to the Commission.    Consistent    with    Rule    2.17    of    the    Rulebook,    the    Exchange    website    will    publish contract   specifications,   terms,   and   conditions,   as   well   as   daily   trading   volume   and   open   interest for   the   Contract.   Each   contract   has   a   dedicated   'Market   Page'   on   the   Kalshi   Exchange   platform, which   will    contain    the    information    described   above   as   well   as   a   link   to   the   Underlying   used   to determine   the    Expiration    V alue    of    the    Contract.    Chapter    5    sets    forth    the   rules,   regulations   and mechanisms    for    executing    transactions,    and    the    rules    and    specifications    for    Kalshi's    trading systems.

Core    Principle    11    -    Financial    Integrity    of    Transactions: Each    Member    must    be    in    good standing   and    in    compliance    with    the    Member    eligibility   standards   set   forth   in   Chapter   3   of   the Rulebook.   All   contracts   offered   by   the   Exchange,   including   the   Contract,   are   cleared   through   the Clearinghouse,    a    Derivatives    Clearing    Organization    ('DCO')    registered    with    the    CFTC    and subject   to   all   CFTC   Regulations   related   thereto.   The   Exchange   requires   that   all   trading   be   fully cash    collateralized.    As    a    result,    no    margin    or    leverage    is    permitted,    and    accounts    must    be pre-funded.   The   protection   of   customer   funds   is   monitored   by   the   Exchange   and   ensured   by   the Clearinghouse as 'Member Property.'

All   Remaining   Requirements: All   remaining   Core   Principles   are   satisfied   through   operation   of the    Exchange's    Rules,    processes,    and    policies    applicable    to    the    other    contracts    traded   thereon. Nothing    in this contract    requires any    change    from    current    rules,    policies,    or    operational processes.